Potential Titles:

-   About a boat

-   Boat story

Plot ideas:

-   a ragtag group of misfits come together to save a boat from a
    > premature retirement

-   Building a mobile village on the water.

-   Something Sealand related?
    > [[https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principality_of_Sealand]{.underline}](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principality_of_Sealand)

-   Something Navy related?

-   Quintuplets, separated in a lab for artificial insemination, grew up
    > in different parts of the world, and somehow are all brought
    > together by their love of a specific boat?

Character Ideas:

-   A Boat who tries to gather a crew to save itself from a life of
    > early retirement.

-   A queer sailor trying to figure out where they fit in.

-   Boat owner\...maybe a careless rich owner who learns to love the
    > boat?

-   The run-away stow-away, trying to start a new life.

-   An older mechanic who's given too much of his life servicing a
    > single boat learns about the value of diverse support networks,
    > and new experiences.

-   An older mechanic who gave too much of his life to too many
    > different boats learns the value of commitment

-   Mermaids? Ghosts?

Chorus Ideas

-   A chorus of boats

-   A fish chorus

-   a fishermen chorus

-   A navy chorus

-   A chorus of gods / mythological creatures?

-   A land-lover chorus / A chorus of the "ones who stay behind"\...on
    > land\...the home base?

Theme Ideas

-   Taking care of what you love

-   Passions/Obsessions

-   Overcoming barriers relating to social norms

-   Becoming obsolete / discarded / how times change

HOMEWORKS:

-   Compile / listen to sea shanty collection

-   Make a list of boat related words and metaphors

-   Make a list of mythological and real characters and stories related
    > to boat

-   Plan an excursion

Song ideas

-   Opening number, on the deck of a ship that\'s arriving at the
    > dock... Starts on the ship with the crew heading home, then jumps
    > to the dock with families awaiting the return

Lyric ideas

-   Have you ever met a sailor who didn\'t say ay? Ay! Ay! Ay! Hi!

-   Let's not waste the dawn, we'll soon be gone, she'll carry us over
    > the sea

-   

Idioms and words

-   We're all on the same boat

-   Show me the ropes

-   Handsomely now: slowly and carefully

-   Avast stop

-   Rocking the boat

-   Just off the boat

-   Missed the boat

-   Steer away

ROLES

-   Captain, has a deeper relationship with their ship. Proud
    > responsibility, wishes they could be part of the mess, connect
    > with the rest of the team

-   Bosun / Boatswaine, most experienced of being at sea. Directs deck
    > activity, keeps everyone coordinated.

-   Cook, the heart of morale.

-   Stoker, Always dirty,

-   Stewards: servers

Brow connect ship to the harbour

Slipping song, slipping away

-   Bringing stuff on boad\...and improv game, what's the weirdest thing
    > we can bring

-   

Improv songs

Sparrow tattoos for how many nautical miles you've done

Front the perspective of the fish, ww1 was the best time, because
everyone stopped fishing to serve in the navy

**CAPTAIN SONG 1: Ship that going nowhere.**

I'm the captain of a ship that's going nowhere

And I'm counting down the days till we run aground

And we're barely even sinking but I'm drowning

In bureaucratic hell, as I try to break this spell

I want to be in a cabin by the sea, where the island air is free to
breathe

I want to see what a life like that could be, if I only could get out of
here, but

I'm the captain of a ship that's going nowhere

And we're stuck inside this harbour by the bay

And I've tried to dump the ballast but there's so much more than

I could ever lift, god somethings gotta shift

I want to live in a cabin somewhere warm, where delicious fruits adorn
the trees

I wanna smile, free of debts to reconcile, if I only could get out of
here,but

I'm the captain of a ship that's going nowhere

And I'm sick of hauling boats to make ends meet.

And I've tried to give it up but it's no use coz we need

Money to survive, though I'm not sure I'm still alive

I'm gonna die in my cabin here some day

Having never left the bay, hooray! :/

I'm gonna rot in my measly captain's cot

In this trash pile that I call a home

**STOKER OPENING SONG**

I love my job and I love every minute that I get to spend with my baby

Sweeping and greasing and stoking and choking as she tells me just what
she needs

The waves are divine as they crash up her spine and she gushing and
screaming and bursting with steam

I love this boat and we've together for most of my life

I love this boat and if she were a person, I'd make her my wife (if she
would have me)

I love my life and I couldn't be happier coming to work every day

~~Rubbing and scrubbing and drumming her plumbing and feeding her full
to the brim~~

Rubbing and scrubbing and drumming her plumbing and feeding her glorious
fi-re

Shove-ling the coal and we're cover-ing the holes as we ready her,
someday, for the trip of her life

I love this boat and she brings out all of the best things in me

I love this boat and some day I will sail her into the sea

I can't imagine a life without her by my side every day of the year

She is the only one I've ever had in my life who I'd think of as
fa-amily

I love this boat and she's made me happy, as happy can be

I love this boat and some day I will die in her arms while at sea

**TELLING the boat what's going to happen**

Torn apart and sold for scraps

**Captain: not ready yet song**

How will I know when it\'s time to go?

What if we fail, after setting sail?

Life hasn\'t prepared me for the choices I have to make

It's now or never

**Stowaway intro song**

What am I doing here?

I feel so strange in this foreign land, they call a fishing town.

I wish they would call it hell.

I have no way of fitting in. the culture here is sink or swim.

Sailors hang out in their own little groups,

and its like I came too late to be part of them.

So i just hang out on the periphery in hope and fear that they'll talk
to me

I don't even have the same interests.

These people equate hunting and fishing with happiness. And I don't.

I want to be comfortable its true. I don't want to do the things that
they do.

I want to meet someone new, a girl maybe.

Everyone here just hangs out with their own kind of crazy.

So I just hang out on the periphery, and both hope and fear that they
will talk to me.

Who am I kidding? Its not them, its me!

I'm too much of a weakling to ever feel free.

Spending time with others? What more could I ask for!

But oh, they'll surely see me as a bore.

How would I say hello? Would I keep my hands high or low?

Do I make eye contact or look at their forehead?

I don't want them to see my face turn red.

So here I am on a lonely pier, both hoping and fearing that someone will
sail by me

What if I'm wrong? As if all along, I've been wasting away my life.
Scared to set sail, lonely and frail, watching the years go by?

And

Maybe I should try, just one time, to not believe what I think. If I
have to live this fisherman's life, I shouldn't care much if I sink.

So here I stand on the dock of my life, wondering if I should set sail
or find a place to hide

**STOWAWAY SONG 1: I'm a Drifter**

They say I'm a drifter

Have no place to call my own

Don't even know my own name

I make it up as I go

I go from station to station

On the trains that pass by towns

I catch a ride on the tail-end

I jump back off before I'm found

Its lonely being a drifter

Friends leave sooner or later

Not really sure whose to blame

To me they're all the same

I steal fish from the catches

Of the boats that come to shore

No one can ever catch me

They never have before

I was born 20 odd years ago

I've been an orphan since that time

I'm young and adaptable

The drifter life suits me just fine

But I'm no sucker for the sea life

Those boats are floating prison cells

You'll never see me on a tugboat

I'd rather find myself in hell (pua!)

**Idea for a serious song as Boat decides to go to open ocean? Open to
feedback**

"To the Ocean, To Freedom"

What must the ocean to a farmer mean?

How must the land to a sailor seem?

Are we all crude and backwards to everyone else?

Does life even care what we do for ourselves?

If a ship is confined to a watery toil,

And a plow is forever caught tearing up soil,

Does that mean a leopard can't change its spots?

Does that mean a drifter cannot be taught?

Does that mean a debtor can never be square?

And a tug and her stoker can never know the smell of open sea air?

I've spent a long time on this planet in space

And i've never felt I was winning the race,

Neither was I losing till this twist of fate.

There's only one option for me at this rate:

Take my life in my own hands before it\'s too late!

I've done what I was meant to for 40-odd years.

I won't let all that time end in these tears,

So boys, I'm not sorry, I won't end up dead.

To the ocean, to freedom! Full steam ahead!

... SHIP IS HIT BY A HUGE STORMM

Stow: Wow, I could get used to a sunrise like this!

Skip: A red sky at morning is a bad sign, we should expect a storm.

Stow: God really? Is everything on the water so morbid?

Skip: Hear that? The wind in the wires. It's already here.

Boat: Hey, cap'n... I'm not... feeling so good.... \*retches\*

Skip: oh dear, Adelaide isn't used to open ocean... We should go check
on eelheart

\*Bangs on hatch, Hatch opens\*

Stok: I've put the boiler to low fire while I add feedwater to the
hotwell... the rolling has her thirsty skip. \*hands a bottle to the
boat\*

\*cut to boat glugging water frantically and looking nauseous\*

Skip: We're gonna need more power to buck the wind, keep our nose into
these swells. I'm gonna need high fire. \*sets hat and goes to work\*

Stok: Aye, aye, cap! \*hatch closes\*

\*stowaway kneels by sick boat\*

Stow: Are you okay?\
\*Boat looks up groggily\*

Boat: mm yesshir I'm \*hic\* grand, drunk wish pleasure. Say, Pete, you
ever seen a boat get seasick? \*giggles deliriously and rushes to vomit
again\*

Stow: \*looks uneasily at Adelaide\* Cap'n? Should I do something?

Skip: Yes, take the helm. I need to plot our way out of this mess, and
we've lost radar.

Stow: Sweet, erm, okay. \*Takes helm, skip pulls out a chart\*

Skip: Here, she'll respond better under more power \*Cut to skip's hand
pushing boat to full throttle.\*

\*Seastate gets considerably worse\*

Stow: Is it just me or are these humps of water getting like, really
fucking big.

Skip: The swells are starting to scare me too, here if you don't mind
\*Ties Stow to a deck rail with rope, then himself\*

Stow: Not a bad idea.

Skip: Never thought I'd need to tie in on this old girl.

Boat: \*swaying back and forth no the deck drunkenly singing a sea
shanty, holding her bottle\* Who are you calling old? \*hic\*
\*stumbles\*

\*at stumble, crew is thrown by storm\*

Stow: \*Hauls the skip up from the deck\*

Skip: Oh my god thanks.

Stow: Don't mention it, we're all on the same boat

Skip: Seriously?

Stow: I couldn't resist

Boat: \*Starts to wander away from heading, mumbling\*

Skip: Could you resist letting the the boat's head come 'round? One
broadside wave and it's all over.

Stow: \*Quickly resumes on helm\* Sorry!

Skip: All good! It's just that the stakes are considerably higher than
when you learned.

Boat: \*Loopy, resumes course\*

Stow: You're not kidding! \*Wave breaks soaking them both\*

\*Hatch opens, Stok has soot on face, coughs\*

Stok: Skip! She won't do this for much longer! The feedwater tanks are
empty and the hotwell's dropping quick! We need to ease off!

Skip: I'm sorry Scully, we need full ahead to climb these swells

Boat: \*sweating, dying\* Each one is like a mountain.

Stok: Avast! We can't keep pushing her!

\*Queue song:

Ode to a Stoker (death song)

(I imagine the boat singing with the dead stoker in her arms)

LOCATION: engine room, just Boat and Stoker before the others find him

God bless the sailor while he is at sea

Cradle him gently and hold him for me

You have his body, but I have his heart,

So take him as you please and force us apart.

Just like a lover, this fair stoker to me,

Led me to bed, to caress me to sleep.

Each harbour night it was just he and I,

At the end, we're together, goodnight and goodbye.

\<3

(forehead kiss, boat spirit disappears when stowaway and cap enter)

Battleships game

LOU'S NOTES:

![](media/image2.png){width="2.4869685039370077in"
height="1.7946511373578302in"}![](media/image1.png){width="2.7552088801399823in"
height="1.9222386264216973in"}

STEAM TUGBOAT (THE TRACTOR OF THE SEA)

BOAT is to be retired/sold

RAGTAG GROUP of characters come together to save it; each has their own
reason for making sure it isn't retired by CAPTAIN

BOAT is in home port, brings RAGTAG GROUP together in "mysterious ways"
(BOAT SPIRIT makes cameos in character songs or opening?)

**????Why is the boat being retired/sold????** (Harbour Hopper)

-   Is CAPTAIN going bankrupt and selling the BOAT to the NAVY/BIG
    > COMPANY for blowing-up purposes? Maybe the RAGTAG GROUP save the
    > BOAT in protest?

-   CAPTAIN doesn't know about BOAT? Do the RAGTAG GROUP kidnap CAPTAIN
    > to convince him not to sell?

Timeline: a week

Characters: BOAT SPIRIT; CAPTAIN; STOWAWAY; STOKER; GRANDDAUGHTER;
VILLAIN

NUMBERS: all-or-almost-all cast

SONGS: fewer cast members

Rough Outline:

1)  Opening Number ("The Tractor of the Sea")

Small scene to introduce main characters. Each character could have
their own verse/song ("I Want" songs) --- characters that know each
other could join together in songs

Story scene(s)

2)  "Oh Shit" Number (the drastic measure of taking it out to sea to
    > convince the CAPTAIN/run away from debt collectors)

More Story exposé, the crew decides --- two or three smaller songs
within scenes (including Villain Song and STOWAWAY song)

Dream/Under the Sea sequence (running away from their lives/reality);
imagining what would happen if BOAT sank (storm scene?)

3)  Resolution/Lesson Learned/Whatever Number

Story scene! Do the characters go home? What happens to the Boat? What
have the characters learned or how have they changed? What happened to
the CAPTAIN?

4)  Closing Number

HISTORY OF BOAT:

-   Used to be a rumrunner

-   Old boat

-   Wooden hull, pump bilge daily (actively sinking)

-   Legend of a rumrun "from these waters" 300 years ago that was paid
    > in pure gold

HISTORY OF CHARACTERS:

BOAT SPIRIT (Lou)-LADY ADELAIDE BOAT is mischievous; people-pleaser boat
(tug); yearns for adventure; naive, doesn't understand value of own
treasure; childish in its humanity

CAPTAIN (Ross?)- Gambler? Not very structured leader; anarchy on board;

STOKER (Shayne)- Luddite-philosphy; prefers the old tech to new; doesn't
want to give up on BOAT; Steam\>Diesel

STOWAWAY (Ben)- really drunk, fell asleep in boat? Orphan, tries to do
sad number but gets roped into helping sail (no sympathy)

GRANDDAUGHTER - old family ties to the boat, recently reconnected and
wants to save it; has secret information

OLD CREW MEMBER?

VILLAIN- also connected through old family ties to boat, tricks CAPTAIN
into gambling boat away (cheats at poker? Gets him drunk?) because of
the treasure on board.

1)  The Tractor of the Sea

    a.  Song starts with them "voyaging out" from port, very excited;
        > entirety of song is "out at sea," ("The best pilot this
        > harbour ever had"); song ends by coming back alongside

    b.  The crew likes its short "sails" and sleeping in their "own
        > beds" at night

    c.  "An honest living and your own bed"

December 1st, Ben's notes:

IDEAS FOR TODAY(NOT FIXED):

PHYSICAL EXERCISES

THERAPY FOR EACH CHARACTER

Boat sounds are language of boat

CAPTAIN HAS NEVER BEEN OUT OF HARBOUR

In war, but never specifies where; was actually on tugboat for entirety

WHY WAS CAPTAIN PART OF STORY? Boat racer? Worked on boat whole life,
got promoted until captain, figured boat would be retired, hoped never
need to operate boat

CAPTAIN sees BOAT as paternalistic relationship; STOKER sees as equal
(?)

MEET STOWAWAY AT PUB:Stowaway hypes up boat crew, pushes over edge to
"get outta here"; Or stowaway ends up on boat after drunk night, urges
boat crew that we got to get back; OR BOAT seduces STOWAWAY

OPENING NUMBER, someone getting roused to go to work, get up and do one
thing and go back to sleep; still in pyjamas

BOAT is pro-stowaway, but no one listens to BOAT

STOKER:

NAME: MR\> EALHART

FIRST NAME: NOT WORTH MENTIONING

CHRISTIAN NAME: SULLIVAN; SCULLY

DETAILS: son of a fisherman; always knew would be on a boat; fishing
town; finished apprenticeship at old coal plant; iron boats down the
Great Lakes; not his first boat; he is old; as obsolete as the boat;
only one who knows how to operate boat; on boat for 6-10 years; knows
about rich history of the BOAT; always defers to CAPTAIN; upset about
CAPTAIN's remodelling of BOAT; agrees to work for boat for cheap

WHY DOES STOKER EXIST: he is frustrated, salty, has hard job but loves
it, opposes change; loves the ship; works closely with the ship; the
least attractive boat member; decrepit human being; scared of losing
last steamer, would have to move for work; NUMBER: talk about different
boats he'd been on;attitude of "going down with the ship"; technical
skills would go to waste; As young as the day I was laid up; Start off
despising the stowaway; dies; dislikes STOWAWAY until dying (via smoke
inhalation) and STOWAWAY is doing something amazing

-   NUMBERS: "the last steamer" slow ballad

-   I wish i had an eye for the ever evolving landscape of the sea, but
    > that s not me; i head for the steamer; and that's good enough for
    > me

-   NUMBER where STOKER explains mortality to BOAT: "wrecked on a beach
    > somewhere"

BOAT: doesn't recognize how time passes; timeless; positive emotions
towards everyone; low emotional intelligence; always hungry; clothes
change after every remodelling by CAPTAIN; wants to live; maybe oil or
coal powered;

STOWAWAY: young and adaptable; a drifter; "with the times"; stokers love
of boat transfers to stowaway; starts off insulting STOKER's love of
BOAT; Meets STOKER at bar, tries to drink him under the table, passes
out and wakes up on BOAT; gets to be a real drifter; takes up position
of STOKER after later's death; start off disliking BOAT; does something
that shows my usefulness on the ship; saves day (fire, put out by
STOWAWAY)

-   NUMBERS: "with the times", "I'm a drifter"

CAPTAIN: BOAT is his; sailing this BOAT for a while; but never out of
harbour; working, but not "sailing" her; steers the BOAT; knows the
harbour; BOAT members don't respect him; always bridesmaid never bride;
gambled away BOAT; but has been fixing the BOAT to make sea-worthy to
sail away; TREASURE given by BOAT, CREW did not know about TREASURE;
taken up loans to fix ship; BOAT seen as freedom, however constantly
working on BOAT imprisons him; TO RESOLVE: gambled vs. Loans; trying to
fix up BOAT, STOKER agrees to work for cheap (knew BOAT before CAPTAIN);
bitter b/c want to experience ocean travel, dancing on beach, get boat
to tropics; live on the BOAT;

-   NUMBERS: "IF IT WASN'T FOR ME", "NOT A BLUE-WATER BOAT", "looking at
    > shore, never seen this before"

-   GAMES: DRESS-UP with BOAT

LOCATION: big harbour town;

CREW: horribly sea sick; running away from loans while running towards
tropical island; scene with all CREW painting;

-   NUMBERS: "painting the ship"

In the Bar:

Eelhart: \... I swear if we have to haul in another Coast Guard Bouy
tender because it broke down off Chebucto head, they should hire us to
do it full time!

Stowaway: I bet you'd love to tend boys full time!

Eelhart: What'd you say?

Stowaway: I bet you'd love to tend boys-

Eelhart: I bloody heard! How dare you! I need the heads (Stowaway's coat
catches, rips)

Stowaway: Ah no! (Looks genuinely remorseful) This thing is pretty much
my house\...

Eelhart: It is eh? You're a proper knacker then?

Stowaway: I haven't had a proper roof under my head in many moons...

Eelhart: Ou a fanciful thing it is to meet a real knacker these days

Stowaway: Are you one too? You have no business smelling like that if
you have a home to go to.

Eelhart: As if you couldn't tell... I'm a sailor! Though I do have a
place on shore. No girl in this town will follow you home to a boat...
that novelty has definitely worn off in this town.

Stowaway: I'm sure many a maid has swooned over you.

Eelhart: Before I had so many sea days, aye

Stowaway: Before your face had the consistency of leather. I could patch
my coat with it.

Eelhart: The sea takes its toll, but so does the road; someday you won't
be so pretty.

Stowaway: Well I'll enjoy it well it lasts I suppose.

Eelhart: And I am sorry for your jacket... I usually fix things not
break them... I reckon a drink could help us change tacks?

Stowaway: I can't say no to a drink

Eelhart: What'll you have?

Stowaway: What you're having (waves hand)

Eelhart: (To bartender) Jim! Two more please!

Stowaway and Eelhart cheers and drink, but Stowaway finishes his.

Eelhart: It ain't a race boy.

Stowaway:

Knacker, I'd pull your tongue out your face if

There once was a day

When steam could make a man fly

\*looking into window\*

BOAT: "Not love the sea? How ridiculous! I bet i could convince him
otherwise..."

\*drifter comes out of bar, stumbling, obviously drunk. Very foggy
outside. Suddenly, a ghostly ethereal tune strikes up from the foggy
distance\*

\~There was a lone drifter

Who had two left feet

He dreamt of a life

Far away from the sea

But one night so lucky

This drifter was he

For he met a sweet lady,

(That lady is me)\~
