[AUDIO FILE]{.underline}

**Release:**
[[https://drive.google.com/file/d/15ltipeOmCnIKF02KFxHlhF2sqF_OrqOW/view?usp=sharing]{.underline}](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15ltipeOmCnIKF02KFxHlhF2sqF_OrqOW/view?usp=sharing)

**Connect:**

Coming soon!

[EVENT DESCRIPTION:]{.underline}

A heart-centered moving meditation to original music by Ross Unger and
Friends. No experience necessary, surrender to the rhythms and let the
music be your guide.

Doors open at 6:30pm for a 7pm start, and music runs for 70 minutes.

All movers welcome to come and participate in this reflective,
meditation dance series! Non-movers also welcome! All abilities and ages
welcome! We encourage you to bring along your dancing spirit and leave
any expectations behind. We hope this gathering offers you a chance to
breathe, move and reflect in a supportive environment.

PWYC (\$10 suggested donation to cover equipment and music costs)

We encourage you to practice social distancing and wear face masks at
this event.

For more information about ecstatic dance check out wikipedia:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecstatic_dance

For more information about Dramatic Changes, visit
www.dramaticchanges.ca

\*Accessibility notice: The Italian-Canadian Cultural Association has
elevators that are accessible from ground level. Please let us know if
you notice any barriers for you attending this event at this location.

\*\* Let us remember that we are on Mi\'kmaki, unceded, unsurrendered,
land of the Mi\'kmaw people who have watched over this land for
countless generations. Let us acknowledge that we share this land with
all living beings, and we carry a responsibility to look after the land,
the water, the sky, and all the environment for the well-being of all.
May we act with a good heart and a good mind. Msit No\'kmaq (all my
relations)

[EVENT CHECKLIST]{.underline}

Equipment: 2 speakers, 2 power cords, 3.5mm to 1/4in splitter cord,
phone (with music). Battery (make sure they\'re charged!), Inverter,
power board

String Lights

Donation box and Cash (for change)

Costumes/tickle trunk?

DC signs + bunting + pamphlets?

[COSTS]{.underline}

Space

Equipment Rental

Music rights / DJ honorarium

# How To Host

1)  Prepare Equipment

Transport the equipment to the location: 2 speakers, 2 ac power cables,
1 phone, 1 aux cable (3.5mm to two 1/4in), string lights and
decorations. If outdoors, add 1 or 2 batteries, an inverter, an extra ac
power cable, a power board.

Set up the speakers. Plug in the power cable. Plug in the aux cable
(1/4in side goes into each speaker, the 3.5mm side goes into your
phone).

If using the battery, set up the inverter. Red cable goes to the red
terminal, black to black. For maximal volume use 2 batteries, and
connect red to red and black to black with the cross-over cable. Plug
speakers into a power board. Plug power board into inverter AC socket.
Flip the inverter switch from Off to AC/DC.

If live-streaming the sound, set up wifi and phone. Do a trial stream to
confirm it's working.

2)  Decorate the space

Set up the fairy lights.

Put table-clothes over the tables(?).

Hang DC bunting and Ecstatic Dance poster.

Prepare DC pamphlets and email-list sign-up sheet

Costumes?

3)  Pre-dance

Play the pre-dance music on medium-low volume (??)

Welcome people into the space.

Smudge and cast protection spells. Meditate.

4)  Dance

Introduce the event. Original music by xxxx runs for XX minutes.
Non-verbal space.

Land acknowledgement

Introduce DC. What we do, how to get involved, donations, etc.

Safety guidelines, consent, intentions.

Keep an eye out for non-consensual physical touch.

Notice any later-comers or curious passers by (if outdoors) and invite
them to join.

5)  Post Dance

Let the silence sit for a moment. Invite people to sit in a circle
(non-verbally if possible).

Sometimes an Om circle might happen organically.

Thank everyone.

Invite folks share 1 word or sentence about their experience if they
wish, going round the circle.

Recap about Dramatic Changes. Invite people to donate and/or join the
planning committee if they enjoyed the event.

Pack up the equipment. Make sure the volume knobs on the speakers
haven't fallen off.

Make sure the washers on the batteries haven't been lost.

Transport the equipment back to where it lives.
