**DESCRIPTION:**

The forests are alive. We have known this since the beginning of time.
They are the life-blood of our world. That is why we took the sacred
oath. That's why we became guardians of the forest.

For a while we did our best, watching over them, stewarding the land,
but as millennia passed, our ancestors started to slip. The pressures of
everyday life and corrupt society clouded our vision. The world around
us changed so fast that we couldn't keep up, and we lost focus. We lost
faith. We left the forests behind.

It wasn't long before the pestilence took hold and started to spread. We
lost touch with the sacred. Our pain was so deep that we couldn't see
the forest for the trees.

Concrete jungles started taking over the world. Tree families torn
apart, their root systems devastated. It was a massacre. A genocide.

Now the survivors stand alone, withering away. They need our help. A
tree without its roots has no community. No support network. No sense of
purpose to live for, and we are their only hope.

There is a magic that can transcend the physical realm. We can bridge
the gap and connect the trees with the forests through prayer, ceremony,
ritual, spirit. We just have to remember. Look to our ancestors. Unlock
the hidden knowledge in our DNA.

ACTIONS (how to play the game)

-   Create alters and consecrate sacred sites

-   Design rituals to recharge the land and carry her spirit with you.

-   Learn new rituals

-   Enact rituals

-   Share rituals you've learned or created with others

BARRIERS

-   Things are always changing

-   Other people and nature destroys or washes away the things we
    > create.

-   Deep care takes time and dedication

EXAMPLES OF RITUALS

-   Introduce yourself to a tree

    -   Approach a tree gently

    -   Place your hand on its bark or roots or leaves and gently stroke
        > it

    -   Say \"hello tree, my name is \_\_\_\_. What\'s yours?\"

    -   Clear your mind. Close your eyes and listen. Wait until a name
        > enters your mind.

    -   Let your friends know the name of this tree.

-   Build an altar

    -   Walk around, collecting any sticks, leaves, stones, feathers,
        > etc

    -   Find a location or a tree that resonates with you and arrange
        > your items in a decorative fashion.

    -   Make a little prayer.

    -   Invite your friends to witness your altar and make a prayer with
        > you.

-   Energy cleansing with smoke

    -   Collect some herbs and aromatics plants

    -   Dehydrate or Dry these plants

    -   Gently light them on fire and then blow them out, letting them
        > cast smoke

    -   Guide the smoke around yourself and any area where you would
        > like to put the energy to rest.

    -   Visualise everything becoming still.

-   Gratitude for a tree

    -   Collect water from special places.

    -   Find a tree that resonates with you.

    -   Make a prayer of gratitude while pouring water on the tree.

    -   Visualise all that this tree has lived through, and all that it
        > has done for us.

-   Day of remembering

    -   Take some time to remember all the trees that featured in your
        > life

EXAMPLES OF ADVANCED MAGICS

-   Group prayer

    -   Sit down with a group of friends and hold hands, or connect
        > physically in some way

    -   Take a few moments to breathe deeply, until your breathe become
        > synchronized.

    -   Chant om 3 times.

    -   Go round the circle, taking turns to pray. It is good practice
        > to highlight gratitudes first in order to ground yourself in
        > that feeling of appreciation. Then you may ask for help with
        > any challenges you are facing.

    -   Focus deeply as each person prays, visualising the manifestation
        > of their prayers.

    -   Chant om 3 times to close the ceremony

-   Directly Connect two trees

    -   Build 2 matching altars at the root of 2 trees (see above for
        > altar instructions)

    -   Ask each tree permission for you to do energy work with its
        > roots

    -   Meditate on why you have come here today. Examine your
        > intentions. Pray for help to do this ceremony in a good way,
        > with good intentions and divine guidance.

    -   Sing a ceremonial song at each site

    -   Visualise the roots of these trees transcending time and space,
        > extending through your altar into another dimension where they
        > are able to touch

-   Celebration of a life

    -   When a tree is dying, invite some friends to come together to
        > celebrate it's life

    -   Introduce the tree, express gratitude for all that it has done
        > for our world, and share stories from it's life.

    -   Take a small cutting from the tree, and later place it in a
        > sacred place.

    -   Take a small portion of its roots, and bury them in a forest.

    -   Sing a sacred song to honor the tree.

IDEAS to THINK ABOUT when CRAFTING new RITUALS

-   Prayer

-   Ceremony

-   Burning something

-   Breathing

-   Submerging in water

-   Root-ing / Grounding

-   Loving

-   Birthing

-   Water, Earth, Fire, Air, Life

CONCEPTUAL DESCRIPTION

An alternate reality game / live-action roleplaying experience and
sculptural installation and performance that begins in the forests, but
bleeds into everyday life, especially into cities.\
\
The premise is that the forests need our help. Their brethren, the ones
trapped in concrete jungles, have been cut off from the mycelium, and
they implore us, the forest nymphs, the walking ones, to help them
reconnect. By building altars, and designing rituals, we help to create
portals between the forest world, and the city world. Through the power
of our ceremonies and our prayers, we reconnect the trees to their roots
and their forests.

This project invites audiences/participants to examine what it means for
trees and nature to live in cities, how isolating it is to be
disconnected from the mycelium, and how we can bridge those gaps. The
whole thing is a metaphor for how we as humans are isolated and
disconnected from our roots, from our ancestors, from our families, from
our neighbors, and how intentionality, ritual, and ceremony can bridge
those gaps.\
\
We will be designing some rituals and building altars as examples, but
also developing rules/guidelines that invite and help
audiences/participants to create their own. My wish is that when folks
return to the city that they might build their own portals and altars
and that as we walk through our cities we remember to pray for the
trees. My wish is also that these rituals and ceremonies inspire
audiences to reconnect with spirituality and self reflection, exploring
questions such as \"where do I come from?\" \"who are my ancestors?\"
\"What generational knowledge do I carry in my blood?\" \"How can
ceremony help me connect with my surroundings and my community?\"\
\
Rituals might involve songs, movement, using water, smoke, fire, earth,
wind, and other nature elements.

#todo why is being disconnected from mycelium a big deal for trees? What
does it mean for them?

INSPIRATIONS

[[https://mymodernmet.com/james-brunt-ephemeral-art-mandalas/?fbclid=IwAR1NeJcgLJGvdW7K2gVKYSspSWjejFZhI_UjugS4vVSwtrX9CJQkw6AHJHw]{.underline}](https://mymodernmet.com/james-brunt-ephemeral-art-mandalas/?fbclid=IwAR1NeJcgLJGvdW7K2gVKYSspSWjejFZhI_UjugS4vVSwtrX9CJQkw6AHJHw)

To Do

-   Research what else has been done

    -   Best practices from other larps

    -   Ask Tallis

-   Create "zones"

    -   More active areas where people can find stuff

-   Make cards

    -   Suggestions

    -   Promo

    -   prompts/invitations

-   Create template for "spellbook"

-   Create and test trial altars and rituals.

-   Let people know it's happening

    -   Launch party/event

    -   Fb event

    -   Promo videos

        -   A ritual

        -   Animated tree talking?

    -   Promo images

        -   Pages from a spell book

    -   

-   
