How To Make Musicals - video series

TO DO

-   Finalize plans for vids

-   Pick a location,

-   Contact guest speakers, (do we want them?)

-   Identify necessary props/ learning tools/ physical items used in
    > vids

-   what will we be performing?

-   Gather video clips to be played during vids to demonstrate
    > points/exemplify concepts

WHAT WOULD DANE DO

-   Lick the camera lens to fill the audience with significant
    > discomfort

Obstacles to begin filming -

Script? Finalize concept -

**Episode 1: Overview**

**Part 1: What is a musical?**

This probably sounds like a silly question, but I think it's important
that we start here, because when people think of musicals, they probably
think of this:

(eg1 little mermaid)

Or this

(eg2 tap dancing - anything goes)

Or this

(eg3 cats)

But they're probably not thinking of this:

(eg4 ragtime)

Or this

(eg 5 #todo)

So what is a musical?

A musical is a dramatic work, that is presented through song and
movement, and action

There are a lot misconceptions about musicals, and I'd like to set the
record straight on some things:

Not all musicals are light, fun, cheesy, vapid pieces of entertainment.
Not all musical have tap dancing, or belting divas, over-the-top cliche
characters.

Not all musicals are made for large theatres. Not all musicals cost over
\$100 / ticket.

Musicals are just as nuanced as every other artform.

**Part 2: A brief history of musicals (how brief?)**

Opera, Ballet, Theatre: People were bored

-   Handel, Mozart and other Classical composers

-   Wagner, and the golden age

-   Puccini, Debussy, Berg (wozzek)

Operettas, Vaudeville, Reviews

-   Gilbert and Sullivan

-   Follies

Writers of the "American Broadway Musical" era / Tin Pan Alley

-   Gershwin (American In Paris)

-   Irving Berlin (Annie Get your gun)

-   Cole Porter (anything goes)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Rogers and Hammerstein (south pacific, oklahoma, carousel)

Mega Musicals

-   Wicked

-   Les Miserables

-   Phantom of the Opera

-   Cats

-   Jesus Christ Superstar

-   Joseph and the Technicolor Dreamcoat

-   Lion King

Cult Musicals

-   Rocky Horror

-   Hedwig and the Angry Inch

-   Avenue Q

-   Dr Horrible's Sing-along blog

-   A Nightmare Before Christmas

-   Threepenny Opera

Jukebox Musicals

-   Hairspray

-   Mamma Mia

Stephen Sondheim: King of Lyrics.

-   A little Night Music

-   Into The Woods

-   Company

-   Assassins

Ahrens and Flaherty

-   Ragtime

-   Anastasia

-   A Man Of No Importance

Kander and Ebb

-   Cabaret

-   Chicago

Contemporary Musicals

-   Parade

-   Last Five Years

-   Songs For A New World

-   Spring Awakening

-   Hamilton

-   Next to Normal

-   

I often find myself fumbling for words, trying to explain what a musical
is NOT.

Part 3:

-   What does it take to write a good musical

    -   Commitment and resilience

    -   Iteration

    -   Letting go of ideas

    -   Discuss what makes a musical good or bad by studying examples
        > from the works of:

[Then, we write a song.]{.underline}

**Episode 2: Finding a Concept**

**Part 1 - Finding a Concept**

So you wanna write a musical and you\'re not sure what it's gonna be
about, or why it's gonna be a musical, but you think "ah, whatever, I'll
figure it out as I go. I have this really cool idea for this song
where-". I'm gonna stop you there.

That's great that you have a cool idea, and it's totally a legitimate
way to start a show. But while we're learning, let's start from the
start, so we don't end up with a lopsided show that makes no sense
because we didn't have a solid plan.

Let's start with the knowns. What do we know about this show so far? Do
we know who's going to perform it? Do we know who's going to watch it?
Do we know where it's going to be performed

In our case here's what we know:

-   It's going to be a youtube video

-   Watched by people who have some interest in musicals

-   Who have probably watched this entire series and therefore have at
    > least some knowledge about the history of musical theatre

-   I'm probably going to be performing, or maybe a friend, or it could
    > be full of little cameos... I guess we don't know who's going to
    > perform yet

Next question. Why are we making this musical?

-   well\...I want to demonstrate some exciting musical theatre writing
    > techniques\...

-   And generally in life I want to make the world a better place...

-   Which I can do by helping people have fun... or by raising awareness
    > of social justice issues\...

So. Question number 1. Why are you writing a musical? What are you
trying to say? Whose story is it?

**Part 2 - Research**

Facts and statistics

Cultural and anthropological approach

Critical thinking

-   Reading between the lines

-   Subtext and context

**Episode 3: Plot and Structure**

-   What makes good/interesting plot/structure. Case Studies:

    -   Beauty and the Beast

    -   Into The Woods

    -   Company

    -   City of Angels

    -   Last Five Years

    -   Avenue Q

    -   Cabaret

-   Plot and structure creation techniques.

    -   Dramatica basics

        -   Dramatica is a pretty incredible tool for understanding plot
            > and troubleshooting.... If you want a deeper understanding
            > of how humans relate to plot, there is nothing better. But
            > take everything with a grain of salt. Not everything they
            > say makes sense (if you look at some of the interviews
            > with the creators, they're really pulling some of this
            > stuff out of their proverbial ass) .... My favorite
            > revelation from studying dramatica is the concept of the
            > storymind. The main concept is that a well structured
            > story contains multiple perspectives which helps audiences
            > see multiple perspectives. The two perspectives that have
            > been super helpful for me are the "overall story"
            > perspective which provides an objective, 3rd person
            > perspective on the events of the story, and the main
            > character perspective, which provide a subjective, 1st
            > person perspective. .... It gets really interesting when
            > the issues that the main character is dealing with are
            > different to the overall story problems - that\'s the
            > quickest way I have found to create subtext.

    -   3, 4, 5 act structures

        -   These are all variations on the same concept. The idea is
            > that stories start somewhere, develop somewhere, and then
            > resolve

    -   Linear, circular, flashbacks, vignettes

-   Is your structure having the desired effect

    -   Considering target audiences and perspectives

    -   Plot and Characters conflicts

-   Plot refinement techniques

    -   What can you cut

        -   Let's talk about cuts. I love cuts. Cuts are great. If
            > you've been thinking about cuts as you write you won't
            > have to do much, and if you haven't, then it won't be hard
            > to figure out what's good and what's not.\
            > \
            > My rule of thumb for cuts is this: if a thing doesn't
            > serve at least 2 purposes it's not doing it's job. Find a
            > better way.

    -   Pushing characters to their limits

        -   So the first thing I always ask myself when I'm trying to
            > make the plot better is "how can I push my characters
            > more". If a character is dealing with financial insecurity
            > maybe they start gambling and borrow money from a loan
            > shark.

**Episode 4: Character Creation**

Ok, so we've been talking about plot like it's somehow distinct from
character, but it's really 2 sides of a coin. Characters are what drives
the plot.

So how do you make a character?

I'm gonna talk about a few different techniques.

**Episode 5: Book**

**Episode 6: Lyrics**

Lyrics are undoubtebly the most time consuming part of the process, at
least for me.

What makes a great lyric?

-   Surprise

-   Levels of meaning

-   Character voice

-   Drives the plot

1)  Meter

2)  Character

**Episode 7: Music**

Music. I have so much to say, where do I start?

What does music do? It tells you what to feel. It takes you places.

1)  Wordsetting

    a.  Emphasis on the right syllables.

    b.  Meter

        i.  Natural

        ii. Stylised

        iii. Rhythm and emphasis

        iv. Time signatures

    c.  

2)  Melody

    a.  Contour

    b.  Climax

    c.  Leaps vs steps

    d.  Repetition

    e.  Retrograde, inversions, diminution, augmentation, displacement

3)  Context

    a.  Harmony

    b.  Genre and instrumentation

    c.  Plot

        i.  Diagetic Music

4)  Character

    a.  Sociopolitical context

    b.  

**Episode 8: Movement and Beyond**

How does movement and "dance" tie into all this?

I think the biggest innovation that waiting to happen in the world of
musicals is the creation of a common vocabulary of dance and movement.

1)  Imagery

2)  Gesture

3)  Why do characters dance?

    a.  Internal conflict

    b.  Joy

    c.  

4)  

**Episode 9: Design Elements**

-   What makes effective Set, Props, Costume, Lighting, and Sound design

    -   Form follows function

    -   Simplicity and detail

-   When should you include Set, Props, Costume, Lighting, Sound in a
    > script

    -   Literal necessity

    -   Subtext and Metaphor

-   How do you communicate with designers

    -   Script conventions

    -   Clear expectations

    -   Contracts/Agreements

    -   Developing a vocabulary

-   

**Episode 10: Workshopping**

Something I always had a hard time getting into when I started writing
musicals was workshopping.

Workshopping is SUCH a crucial step in the process. It's the only way to
really get the musical out of your head and into other people's heads,
and you need to know how other people see it to figure out what you're
doing wrong. No show comes out perfect.

Resist the urge to do "a little bit more". It's just not worth it, and
it'll end up confusing your feedback. There's nothing more annoying than
a workshop audience telling you they loved the costumes when you already

1)  Who do you invite

2)  

-   How to work with Test Audiences

    -   Framing what you're presenting

    -   Creating an environment that encourages honest feedback

    -   Who to invite / what makes a good test-audience member

-   What to listen for/ignore when you get feedback

    -   Moments of laughter / audience reactions

    -   Taking everything with a grain of salt

    -   Comments that take into account the unfinished nature of a
        > test-presentation

Week 5

**Character creation basics**

-   What makes a strong character

    -   Wants vs Needs

    -   Internal conflict

    -   Unique perspectives

    -   Examples: Colehouse from Ragtime, Belle from Beauty and the
        > Beast,

-   Character creation techniques

    -   Adapting from real life

    -   Creating internal conflict

    -   Using archetypes/stereotypes as a starting point

    -   Character traits and foils

-   Homework: create the characters for your show. Write short scenes
    > detailing how they would think and act in various situations

Week 6

**Advanced character creation**

-   Common Pitfalls / Troubleshooting characters

    -   Making sure character arcs line up with overall story arc

    -   Character inconsistency

    -   Writing characters whose belief system you don't understand or
        > agree with

    -   Stereotypes and generic characters

-   Character refining techniques

    -   Inverting gender, sexuality, ability, or ethnicity

    -   Building character belief systems

    -   Hotseat activity

-   Homework: refine characters

Week 7

**How to write dialog**

-   What makes strong dialog: examples from the works of:

    -   Jason Robert Brown

    -   Kander and Ebb

\- How to use dialog efficiently and effectively

-   Every line should achieve at least 2 things

-   Audiences read between the lines

-   Character consistency

-   Character specificity: could another character say this line in this
    > situation?

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Dialog generation techniques

    -   Outlining: writing what the character is [trying]{.underline} to
        > say before refining it with character voice .

    -   Character voice

    -   Drawing from research: studying how real life people that are
        > similar to the character speak.

-   Homework: write a scene with at least 2 characters and dialog

Week 8

**Lyrics part 1**

-   What makes lyrics good, with examples from the works of:

    -   Sondheim

    -   Lynn Ahrens

    -   Howard Ashman

    -   Writers of the Tin Pan Alley era.

-   When should you use lyrics/song

    -   Diegetic lyrics

    -   Internal conflict

    -   Setting and narration

    -   Chorus, and voices as musical instruments

-   Lyric writing techniques

    -   Meter

    -   Rhyme

    -   Metaphor

    -   Imagery

    -   Outlining: understanding what you're trying to say by writing it
        > in plain English.

-   Homework: choose an appropriate point in your plot and write song
    > lyrics

Week 9

**Lyrics part 2**

-   Review the homework. Discuss what makes these lyrics weak/strong

-   More lyric writing techniques:

    -   Character: who is singing the song and why

    -   Audience: who is being sung to

    -   Subtext: what are the meanings behind the words

    -   Specificity. The devil is in the details

-   Homework: re-write the song from scratch

Week 10

**Music**

-   What makes music effective.

    -   Diegetic music

    -   Music as setting

    -   Character music and leitmotifs.

    -   Emotions

    -   Underscore

-   How do you communicate with composers / speak their language

    -   Vocabulary

    -   Structure: tension and release

    -   Rhythm and time

    -   Harmony and Melody

-   Homework: find or create underscore for a moment in the script

Week 11

**Dance and movement**

-   What makes effective dance and movement

    -   Diegetic dance

    -   Symbolism and gesture

    -   Emotions and Internal conflict

-   When should you use dance and movement; examples from the works of:

    -   Sondheim

    -   Rodgers and Hammerstein

    -   West Side Story

    -   A Chorus Line

    -   Kamp, by Garry Williams and Jamie Bradley

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   How do you communicate your ideas to choreographers

    -   Vocabulary

    -   Script conventions

    -   Rhythm and time

    -   "Bits"

    -   Character

-   Homework: find and describe a moment in your structure that relies
    > on dance and movement

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   
