**ICEBERG SCRIPT**

**SCENE 1**

I am a squirrel, floating on an iceberg in the middle of the ocean. I'm
all alone, in the middle of nowhere, wondering what's the point of
living. I give up and slip into the water. As I'm drowning I see visions
of my family and their trauma.

**SCENE 2**

Grandpa Unger is a young badger, leaving behind his home to escape the
war. He leads his family through the woods towards the heart of Russia.
For 5 days they walk with all the belongings they could carry. They hear
the bombings and the artilliary, and they're terrified, but he remains
stoich. He mustn't let that fear take hold, or he won't be able to
muster the strength to keep going. At 12 years old, he is the oldest man
in the family, and must stay strong for them.

**SCENE 3**

Grandma Unger is a mole. She's starving. There's a famine. At age 5 she
is the youngest daughter in the family. She eats a vegetable from the
garden, and her mother berates her, because there won't be enough for
the rest of the family.

**SCENE 4**

Dad is a bear. He never had a childhood. Age 3, he's playing in the
kitchen with pots and pans. His parents come home, And he quickly puts
away his "toys". He knows there is no time for messing around. He has to
help around that house.

Age 10, his parents start to get mad at his little brother for something
insignificant, and Dad stands up for him. He takes him for a walk. Walks
him to school. He doesn't want him to endure what he had to. The PTSD
and scarcity mentality of his parents is a lot to handle.

Age 21, military service is not a huge adjustment, because he's been
living strict existence his whole life.

Age 34, he floats away on an iceberg with my mom and my brother, leaving
behind his daughter, his brother, his parents.

#Sperm donor

**SCENE 5**

Uncle is a dog. He is a single dad to three kids at age 29, and he's
just moved to a new country where he doesn't speak the language, and has
no profession. He does his best to look after his family, but sometimes
he bites people when they won't leave him alone.

He asks my dad for help repeatedly, and doesn't understand why my dad is
frustrated and gets upset with him.

**SCENE 6**

My three Cousins are a sloth, a hyena, and a snake. They grow up knowing
their mother doesn't want them. They're showered with gifts and
opportunities, but there's something missing, a human connection. Their
dad works too much, their stepmom is cold. The rifts in the extended
family leave them isolated.

As adults they try to patch the family together again, and for a while
it seems like they've pulled off a miracle, but eventually some of the
stitches start to tear and the connections begin to unravel. The
individuals have not come far enough in their healing for us all to
truly form a tapestry.

**SCENE 7**

My half-sister is a scorpion. She is bitter that my dad left her behind.
She has 2 little half-brothers now, but none of them feel totally like
her siblings. She tries to be nice to them, but the pain comes to the
surface and she ends up hurting them

**SCENE 8**

My half-Brother is a mouse. He feels unwanted. He wonders if it's his
fault. He watches his family fall apart as my mom separates from his
dad. He struggles with my dad who is a scary step-father to him. He's
drifting away from his home on an iceberg with my dad, and our mom.

**SCENE 9**

My mother is a Cat.

-   She knows how to "shrug it off", never affected by anything for too
    > long

-   Her first marriage falls apart\...being pregnant and not wanting it
    > anymore

-   Her older brother and mother fight a lot.

-   Her Dad doesn't say much. Doesn't show much love

-   Her moms best friend Lena was like an adopted grandma for her...
    > actual grandma Taisha died eariler

-   2 abortions... pregnancy without penetration with earlier boyfriend,
    > Sergei (came to visit recently, resolved karmic tensions, he
    > blamed himself)

    -   Later, betrayed by her Brother, who told her first husband about
        > these abortions, which affected their relationship

-   Lived alone with husbands parents in Georgia briefly

-   Dad\'s first wife was mums friend

    -   Remarried another mutual friend, had a kid almost on the same
        > day as me... Julia\'s brother.

    -   Resolved karma with Julia and her mum

-   Abortion after sasha

-   

**SCENE 10**

Grandma Selivanov (Lion? eagle?)

-   Evacuated to Siberia

-   Suicidal in teen years

-   Deep hayoka. Laughter saves her life

-   Sexual assault\...neighbour... as a kid

-   Her parents didnt love each other... her moms love died in the war,
    > his best friend married her... she taught communism... Nanny for
    > her younger half brother

-   Age 15 ... she had Abortion at 7month :(

-   Moms cousin sergei\...uncle volodia\...his dad high ranking nkvd\...

**SCENE 11**

Grandpa Selivanov (Turtle)

-   10 yo defending his home

-   Maybe killed a man at 10yo nazis advancing on moscow

-   Didn\'t reaaaaally love grandma... needed to be married for an
    > apartment... a convenient arrangement... they were more like
    > friends

-   Lked cards, cars, lovers...

-   His parents didn't love each other... she was
    > beautiful...arrangement marriage for class, dragged away from her
    > true love... had 10 kids, 4 survived\...

**SCENE 12**

I, the squirrel, burst forth from the water and scamper onto the iceberg
again. I notice that there are other small icebergs with only 1 creature
on them. I float up to one and it's a panther. I try to tie our icebergs
together with a string, but they start growling at me. I float up to
another who is a seagull. I try to connect, but they fly away. A third
one is a seal, who licks me, but then jumps in the water and swims away.
Finally, I come across a rabbit, and together we're able to make a home.
We approach land, and as the camera zooms in we can see a baby butterfly
in their belly.

Fade to black.
