**Party At The Old Folks**

The audience arrive at the funeral of jeremiah jones. They are free to
interact with the environment, and pay their respects. The ceremony
begins with a short introduction by the priest. He sings about how
Jeremiah planned his funeral and how he's prepared a recording
(Introduction).

Flashback. Jeremiah wakes up and goes about his day at his retirement
home. He talks on the phone to his son, Jessie, who he hasn't seen for a
long time. He banters with the other residents and staff. He 'party
hops' between wake and other funeral related events (funeral montage)
which form the basis of his social life. We also see him having
difficulty with some technology, such as Tivo. He discusses his funeral
schedule with best friend, Alicia. There is a nurse who tries to
convince him to plan for his funeral, but as he contemplates his
mortality (Nightmare Sequence #1), he becomes distressed and has a
blackout.

When he awakes he brushes it off as nothing, but his friends are
worried. As his day continues, he ends up at the funeral of Ginifer, a
much loved community member. However, the turnout of guests at the
funeral is rather low, and he discovers that "live-funeral-streaming"
has been introduced, and people are watching from the comfort of their
own homes. Jeremiah is perplexed and sings a song denigrating this new
technology (funeral intervention).

As he returns to his room, outraged, he discovers that new 'ipad'
technologies are being implemented in his room to help monitor his
health. He receives a call from his son who explains that it is he who
is donating all this technology because he's worried about Jeremiah's
health. As Jeremiah contemplates how the world around him is changing,
he is overwhelmed by the idea of all this new technology and has another
blackout (Nightmare Sequence #2). His son, thinking Jeremiah is still on
the phone, reveals that he's just been diagnosed with a terminal
illness.

\[potential intermission\]

Some time later, Jeremiah returns from hospital. He is shocked to find
how much everything has changed. Everyone is using ipods, skype, the
"adopt-a-grandparent" online service, and there is even an automated
pill dispenser that has replaced one of the nurses. He confides his
concerns to Alicia, and laments the passing of the good old days (Good
Old Days), before his wife died.

When he catches Alicia using an iPhone, he feels betrayed and storms off
to his room where he receives a package from Jessie which he casts
aside. He has a one-sided conversation with a photo of his dead wife
(Old Fool) attempting to justify his behaviour, eventually admitting to
himself that he is being unreasonable, and that he is really just
overwhelmed and intimidated to live in a quickly changing world without
his wife who always looked after him. He remembers the package from
Jessie and quickly opens it. Trying to change his ways, he puts on the
augmented reality goggles that it contains and attempts to embrace the
future. Unfortunately, Jessie is now dead, and the goggles play a
recorded message inviting Jeremiah to his funeral. In the message Jessie
laments that Jeremiah was always absent when he was growing up, and
explains that he dedicated his life to technology in an attempt to
connect with Jeremiah and help other families connect.

Jeremiah is transported via live-stream-augmented-reality to his son's
funeral, where Jessie has requested that he give a eulogy. Jeremiah
sings a song (My Son, Jessie) praising the work of his son and lamenting
his own stupidity for refusing to engage with the technology his son was
developing.

After the funeral, Jeremiah discovers that Alicia is dying. He begs her
not to leave him, and she explains that she is ready and that he should
be too; That everybody she knows is dead; she doesn't recognise herself
in the mirror; the world is changing and she can't keep up; but also
that she lived a long full life, and she's ready to move on, and he
should be too.

Finally Jeremiah is ready to accept his own mortality, and sings a song
(We All Die - My Son Jessie reprise) about letting go of fear and
accepting that death is a part of life.

**Production History**

Workshop reading (Halifax, 2015)

**Bio**

Ross Unger is a writer/composer/jack-of-all-trades from Australia. He
studied Jazz Composition, Theatre, and Film at Monash University in
Australia. He's done work with the Musical Theatre Factory in New York,
Zuppa Theatre Company in Halifax, MKA theatre of new writing in
Melbourne, Australia, and many other groups. In 2014 he wrote a tune a
day for a year released in the form of a "real book". He's written 4
full-length musicals, and several short musical, some in collaboration
with his devised musical theatre group in Australia.

Katie MacDonald is a visual artist/writer from Nova Scotia, Canada.
She's spent several years travelling the world, and doing some social
work
