TODO

-   Street scene shading

-   Door open motel

-   Chainsaws

-   Phone dialing

-   Cow licking

-   Yawns

-   Bubble pop?

-   "I can't believe she actually said that"

-   Sally bar image 2

QUESTIONS TO ANSWER IN INTERVIEW

-   How the kids were involved

    -   Voices

    -   Chose the animals

    -   Chose the theme of trump, orlando shooting, the feeling of
        > "there's nothing I can do to help".

    -   Elements of each kid in the story

        -   One of the kids was pregnant

        -   One of the kids talked about a camping trip on a river as
            > their fond memory / safe place

        -   One of the kids talked about wanting to be a carpenter

        -   One of the kids talked about growing up on a farm and being
            > best friends with their goat (who we made into a cow)

    -   

-   What the kids learned from it

    -   One of kids wrote a song

    -   One of the kids learned the basics of game-making

    -   They learned a few new recipes

    -   Basic microphone technique

-   What were the challenges

    -   Attendance

    -   New kids arriving, old ones leaving

    -   We ended up doing most of the work. The project went from game,
        > to animation, to audio book with images. We almost gave up on
        > the images too. I spent probably 50 hours scanning and
        > coloring and shading these scenes. In the end I had to cut a
        > lot of corners. The project just got out of hand.

-   

Target audience

-   Americans who decide not to vote or vote for trump

Overall Story

-   All the characters bond over their

Locations

-   Forest

-   ~~Pyros farm~~

-   ~~Pyros house~~

-   Ashley\'s motel

-   Hitchhiking

-   Jenna, park?

-   Jenna group home, + closet

-   Library

-   Library Computers

-   Train

-   Eric truck/office?

-   Bus

-   Suburban street

-   Eric\'s house outside, living room, bedroom, kitchen

-   Sally bar

-   Nightclub

-   ~~Sally's home.~~

-   Train

-   New York street

-   Cafe

-   Ernie\'s office

-   Airport/plane

-   Trumps office

-   Cafe

-   Elevator / trump foyer

-   Ernie foyer

-   ~~Ernie\'s office~~

-   Press conference stage

-   Election booth

-   Trumps foyer, office

Factoids

-   Garbage: as a metaphor, garbage is something that has no value, or
    > just isn't true. Kind of like the propaganda politicians sometimes
    > spew

-   Deforestation:

    -   It is estimated that within 100 years there will be no
        > rainforests.

    -   One and a half acres of forest is cut down every second.

    -   Up to 28,000 species are expected to become extinct by the next
        > 25 years due to deforestation.

    -   Re-use paper and plastic bags to discourage deforestation.

    -   Famous protests: Tree sitting in 1978 (the first tree sitting
        > action) led to the protection of what is now the Pureora
        > Forest Park in New Zealand.

    -   Clayoquot Sound, home of the Nuu-chah-nulth people. More than
        > 850 people were arrested for engaging in civil disobedience --
        > namely, blockading logging roads leading into the Clayoquot
        > Sound region. This episode marked the largest instance of
        > civil disobedience in Canadian history. One of the leaders of
        > the protests, Tzeporah Berman, was jailed and charged with 857
        > counts of criminal aiding and abetting. In the interim, most
        > of the contested land in Clayoquot Sound has remained unlogged

-   Living Under A Rock:being oblivious or ignorant to what happens in
    > the outside world.

-   "I don't do people": social anxiety facts

    -   

-   Large Bio-tech corporations:

    -   patented genetically engineered seeds.

    -   Bought out traditional seed companies, and discontinued their
        > seed

    -   Due to patent law, it became illegal for farmers to save seed.

    -   As farmers turned to genetically uniform, mass-produced crop
        > varieties, over 75 percent of plant genetic diversity was
        > lost.

-   Too Big To Fail Banks:

    -   In 2007/2008 there was a financial crisis. Too-big-to-fail banks
        > had been making increasingly risky investments, thinking they
        > were invincible because of their size and interconnectedness.

-   Supreme court

    -   The supreme court has a huge influence in how laws are
        > interpreted.

-   Fast Failure

-   Hitch-hiking:

-   Pregnancy facts:

-   Group homes

-   How difficult it is to volunteer\...barriers.

-   Bubble

-   Taking babies away :( (gameplay: tap repeatedly to keep your baby)

-   Librarians are super helpful

-   Suburbia

-   6 degrees of separation

-   Long commutes to work\...urban sprawl

-   apprenticeship

-   Illegal immigrants stats

-   Aging population

-   How tipping works

-   Islama-phobia

-   Sally sexuality facts

-   Vote rigging and gerrymandering

-   Al Gore vs Bush

-   fire-fighters axe: when you take down a door, it can be dangerous;
    > the new oxygen can fuel the fire

-   treason embezzlement and arson

TAKING OUT THE TRASH

CHAPTER 1 (Ashley the \_)

Pg 1

Ashley stepped out of her tent and smiled - It's not everyday you wake
up overlooking the most beautiful mountains in the world. It didn't
matter that she'd seen it every day for the past year; a sight like this
never gets old.

She goes for a little swim. The lake's a little chilly, but she's not
complaining. She lights a fire to boil some water for breakfast, and
cracks a couple of eggs. Life is good.

(gameplay: don't press anything, or the level's over)

Pg 2

Ashley turns on the radio. It's not that she cares about what's going on
in the world - she gave up on all that long ago - but she does have to
keep an ear out for risky weather warnings.

"So, they say that old Ronald Dumpf might win. What do you have to say
about that?"

"You know, it's hard to believe. If I wasn't so utterly terrified, I'd
be laughing my ass off. The man isn't fit to run his own-"

Ashley didn't want to hear another word. Politics bored her to tears,
after all, who cares? It's not like SHE could do anything about it.

Pg 3

Ashley hears a low hum in the distance. "That's odd" she thinks "no one
ever comes to this neck of the woods". She tries to ignore it...
(gameplay?) but eventually curiosity gets the better of her.

She packs up camp and gets into her hand carved canoe and sets off down
the river towards the offending sound.

Suddenly, Ashley sees something she hasn't seen in a long time. She
doesn't believe her eyes at first, but no, they're not lying. Floating
downstream is a big old piece of garbage.

She fishes it out, but she doesn't know what to do with it. She can't
even burn it - it's plastic.

Pg 4

As she approaches the source of the hum, she starts to hear voices. Lots
of voices. People? What are they doing here? She proceeds with caution.
She moors her canoe hidden from sight and edges toward the unwelcome
disturbance.

\*thwamp\* She can't believe it. "It couldn't be" she thinks "they
wouldn't" \*thwamp\* No, apparently they would. The sound is
unmistakable. She breaks into a run (gameplay)

Pg 5

"STOP!" she yells. "This is an endangered forest." They look over at her
sheepishly. "Baaaaah". Ashley can't believe her eyes. It's a devastating
sight. Hundreds of stumps. Thousands.

"Who's in charge here?" She makes her way to a large man who greets her
with a wolfish grin. "Can I help you?"

"Are you aware that this is a protected forest?"

"Sue me"

"You can't just come in here and start tearing down trees."

"What are you, the tree police? If you got a problem with it you can
take it up with my boss."

He hands Ashley a card.

"But you better hurry."

Pg 6

Ashley chokes back tears. She knows that by the time she gets to the
city and back the whole forest will be gone. This was her home.

She takes out her camera and takes shot. It's a damn tragedy.

After giving it some thought Ashley does what any sane woman would do.
She whips out her satellite phone and makes the call. It doesn't matter
that she's an introvert, she'd rather have a thousand protesters living
in her forest than let it be destroyed.

Pg 7

Ashley realises that she has a long journey ahead of her. This isn't
just about a forest. This is about the whole world. As much as she loved
living under a rock, she knows it's time to get involved. It's not just
"someone else's problem" anymore.

She says goodbye to her beloved forest, and sets off downstream

CHAPTER 2 (Pyro the \_)

Pg 8

Pyro steps out of the barn to the great sunrise. He sees the cotton
candy sky and smiles. He doesn't mind getting up every morning to milk
the cows.

Bessy licks his hand. Although it's commonly accepted that cows don't
have the biology for it, Pyro is convinced that she's smiling at him. It
would make sense. After all, they're best friends.

(gameplay: milk as fast as you can\...more milk = more points, but bad
for the cow)

Pg 9

A knock comes from the door, which is startling. Pyro hasn't had
visitors for years. He has half a mind to ignore it. Nothing good has
ever come of visitors.

(gameplay: tap repeatedly, trying to make pyro answer the door)

\*Knock Knock\*. Mighty persistent. Pyro clenches his all purpose
jackknife, and maps out the location of every firearm in the house. Just
to be safe.

"Hello?". Well that's just rude. Didn't your mother teach you not wander
into strangers houses. "Can I help you?"

"Pyro?"

"Ashley? What are you doing here?"

"Just passing through"

Pyro wasn't one for small talk\...and neither was Ashley for that
matter.

"I'm on my way to the capital. I could use your help"

"Not interested"

"There's some seriously messed up stuff going on; they're tearing down
the forests-"

"It really not my problem. I don't do people."

"I understand. If you change your mind, friend, come find me"

Pg 10

How strange. Pyro couldn't recall ever having 'friends', but he'd known
Ashley so long ago that maybe he'd just forgotten. It's not
inconceivable.

As he reflects on this bizarre occurrence, there comes another knock
from the door. Two in one day? You've got to be kidding me.

"Sir, I'm here from the TooBigToFail bank, and this is a representative
from the Sacred Moon seed company. We've come to renegotiate the terms
of your mortgage."

"Sorry I'm not interested"

"I'm sorry, but it's not really up to you. As senior investors it is
well within our rights to be involved in any and all matters concerning
the running of this agriculture business."

"Huh?"

"We want you to start using Sacred Moon seed"

"But I don't want to"

"Let me put it like this: if you don't started using Sacred Moon seed,
we're gonna sell your property

"Get the hell off my land"

Just when he was starting to think that maybe visitors weren't so bad.
What a shame. Doesn't look like Pyro has much choice. He packs the bare
essentials and runs out the door

(gameplay = pick what he brings {a weapon, a book, one set of clothes} )

Pg 11

Tracking him down was the easy part, it was figuring out what to say
that scared the hell out of Pyro. Years of solitude will do that to you.
Could be worse though. Could be a full blown social anxiety.

(gameplay: tap repeatedly. Social anxiety stop you)

"Hello Ashley- no, Hi friend- um, no. Hmm"

Pyro might have been there for hours if the door hadn't opened to reveal
a grinning Ashley. "Glad you could make it"

Pg 12

After several hours of planning and research it was clear that neither
Ashley nor Pyro had any idea what they were doing, nor how the political
system worked.

"Wait, so the supreme can overturn ANY law? and the president gets to
choose the judges? And the judges stay on for life?"

(Gameplay = internet land. They go into the computer, visit google,
wikipedia, facebook. Fight "trolls")

Pg 13

The next morning they awoke tired and groggy. It had been a long,
frustrating night, but at least now they knew enough to realise that
they didn't know anything. All their research had left them more
confused than ever. They were going to need some help.

They cleared their browser history and hit up the highway. Neither was a
novice when it came to hitchhiking so they quickly found themselves a
ride.

(gameplay: luck + time limit)

CHAPTER 3 (Jenna the Duck)

Pg 14

Jenna rubs her belly and smiles. This baby might be the best thing that
has ever happened to her. As she comes home from her doctor's
appointment she dreams of the life that she'll make for her and her
daughter.

As she daydreams she feels a bubble of safety and warmth wrap it's arms
around her, shielding her from the troubles of her life. Nevermind that
she's broke. Nevermind that she needs a degree to work her dream job.
Everything is gonna be alright. She's going to start over. It's a brand
new day.

(gameplay: stop things from popping the bubble)

Pg 15

She probably would have daydreamed forever if she wasn't rudely
interrupted by a pair of complete strangers.

"Jenna?"

J "What?!"

As she looks up she realises that they aren't in fact strangers.

\(J\) "Ashley? Pyro? I haven't seen you in years! What are you guys
doing here?"

\(A\) "We've come to stop this whole Ronald Dumpf business"

\(J\) "Since when do you care about anything?"

\(A\) "Since they tried to tear down my forest"

\(P\) "They're taking away my farm"

\(J\) "Bastards"

\(A\) "We could use your help. You wanna come with us?"

\(J\) "Sounds important, but I can't. I'm working in a group home, and I
haven't told anyone yet, but I'm pregnant!"

\(A\) "Congratulations! That's amazing"

Jenna doesn't mention that she is working as a cleaner. It's not that
she's embarrassed, there's just no point getting into it, ya know?

\(P\) "I can't believe we're the first to know"

\(J\) "I only just found out"

\(P\) "Do you know if it's a boy or a girl?"

Jenna would have loved to stay and chat, but they seemed to be in a
rush, and she was running late for work.

\(A\) "Hey, if you change your mind, you've still got time before you
pop, come find us."

Pg 16

What a nice surprise. She hadn't seen Ashley or Pyro since they were
kids. As she arrives at work, reflecting fondly on their juvenile
tomfoolery, she notices Gale, crying on the couch.

"What's wrong honey?"

"Where am I supposed to go?"

"What do you mean? What's going on?"

"I can't stay here"

"Why not?"

"They told me I had to leave"

"Who told you that? Why?"

"Because I'm pregnant"

"You can't stay here because you're pregnant?"

"Not unless I give the baby up"

"What? They can't make you do that"

"Apparently they can. Ronald Dumpf says-"

"Ronald Dumpf can mind his own business. Hey, it's gonna be ok,
alright?"

Jenna wishes she could do more, but her heart is racing and she needs to
be alone.

(Gameplay: tap to hold in the anger)

Pg 17

She barely makes it to the supply room in time to muffle her anguished
cries with a pillow. What an utter ASS. She imagines hurting him and it
feels good. She's not sure how to feel about that. She blames it on the
hormones.

Pretty quickly her train of thought takes her down to baby town. Her
safety bubble swells again and wraps it's arms around her. Forget the
world. It just you and me now.

(gameplay: throw gale at her trying to pop the bubble)

But then she thinks of poor Gale, and the thousands like her. What if
that were me. What if they took away MY baby.

As she ponders the state of the world, she realises what she has to do.
She packs her daypack and heads out.

Pg 18

She's never felt at ease in libraries. The vast expanse of books always
seemed daunting and to choose a book from millions is no small feat.
Maybe it's her generation.

But she's not here for books. Jenna makes her way to the computer lab
where Ashley and Pyro are struggling with the sheer stupidity of the
Dumpf following.

"Sheep are the dumbest group of voters in the country. I could lie and
they'd still eat it up"

A: "I can't believe he ACTUALLY said that"

P: "Look at them cheering!"

J: "Is this seat taken?"

A: "I knew you'd come!"

P: "What made you change your mind?"

J: "The world's a scary place and I've just been ignoring it. If you're
going to do something to make it that little bit better, I wanna be
there with you."

They smile.

J: "Now show me what you've got"

They didn't have much in the way of a plan, but with Jenna there, things
started to look up.

Pg 19

Sometimes life is just too perfect. You follow hunches, and you meet the
perfect strangers, and you're in the flow, and everything just works.
Unfortunately, this was not the case. The odds were stacked against
them, and they were grasping at straws. But she was glad she'd come.
She'd been in a rut. Everyday life had grown stale. She was sick of her
suburban life. Pyro and Ashley, they were different. They brought her
back to another time.

(Gameplay: memory)

Speaking of another time\...

\(J\) "Do you guys remember Eric and Sally? I bet they know someone who
can help us"

\(P\) "Are they still together?"

\(J\) "Why would they not be?"

\(A\) "Let's go. I'll explain on the way"

So here they are; three unlikely heroes with a half baked plan. 6
degrees of separation between all the human race. Do they stand a
chance? Who knows. But off they go anyway. Jenna buys them all tickets,
and they board the train.

CHAPTER 4 (Eric the beaver)

Pg 20

Eric gets off the truck and takes a long deep breath. There's nothing
quite like the satisfaction of a hard day\'s work. He reflects upon his
craftsmanship and smiles. One day I'm going to build my OWN house.

He collects his cash and catches a bus homeward. The bus is always full
of the strangest people, great for chatting to\...but not today. Eric
stares out the windows. He loves it when it rains.

(Gameplay: tap if you want to chat)

Pg 21

Eric doesn't mind the long walk home. He's used to it. He'd love to live
closer to the city, but he's got parents to look after, and who can
afford the rent these days.

As he closes the gate behind him, Eric is surprised to hear the sound of
laughter. His parents haven\'t laughed in years. He enters cautiously.
Guests?

A joyous squeal fills the the room as a tiny human throws her body at
him.

"Jenna! Pyro! Ashley"

The old friends chat for hours and it's like no time has passed at all.
As the night grows long Eric wonders why they never stayed in touch;
they were such close friends. He convinces them to stay the night.

(gameplay: memory?)

Pg 22

As he makes the beds, Jenna finally asks him.

"Whatever happened with you and Sally?"\
"Oh. It didn't work out. She was heading for the big city, and I had my
parents, ya know how it is"

"Right. Have you spoken to her?"

"Once or twice, but it was hard."

"We're gonna go see her. Why don't you come with us?

"She knows you're coming?"

"No. But she's the only one I know who's got a chance in hell to help
us. You should come"

"I can't. I've got my parents to look after, and I need the money. I
can't afford to lose my job"

"I get it"

"Tell her I say hi"

As he lays awake, Eric wonders. It's not that he regrets his choice to
stay - his parents really needed him - it's just that he wishes life
were different. Sally was really special. Here was life, throwing him
another chance...

(gameplay: memory)

But he's made peace with it before.

Pg 23

The next morning, Eric watches the news as he stirs the oatmeal. He
wonders what kind of nonsense they'll sensationalise today. Oh good,
it's an interview with Ronald Dumpf. He always makes Eric laugh."

"I'm gonna build a dam. And I'm gonna make the beavers pay for it. Mark
my words, they're gonna pay for it. They come to our land, steal our
jobs. They're laughing at us. I'm gonna make sure each and everyone of
them goes back where they belong"

A chill runs through his veins. He wants to believe the man is joking,
but he knows it's just not true.

Pg 24

The oatmeal burnt a little, but Eric doesn't really care. He is silent
over breakfast. For the first time in forever, he is genuinely scared
for his family. He had always steered clear of politics. It's was always
someone else's problem. But not anymore. This is different. He looks at
his parents, wondering how they will pay the rent without him. It
doesn't matter now. If he doesn't do something, there'll be no rent to
pay. He makes up his mind.

"I have to go"

His parents smile compassionately. They know how hard this is for him.
He packs his things and says goodbye. He wonders if he'll ever see them.
Their tired faces. Ho looks away before he starts to cry.

(gameplay: tap on images of parents to stop missing them)

CHAPTER 5 (Sally the squirrel)

Pg 25

Sally dons her apron as she fills her bottle. It's not that she loves
apple juice, but she needs the sugar to get her through the day.
Slrrrrp..ah. She should really be drinking water. But who's gonna find
out.

(gameplay: tap to slurrrp. Point for slurping, but also bad for you)

Sally mostly loves her job, but nights like tonight she wishes she was
somewhere else. There's a fine line between friendly banter and
harassment, and everyone makes mistakes, but this Dumpf crew is
something else. At least they tip well.

(gameplay: choose how to respond to assholes. More points if you suck up
to them, but maybe you should tell them off when they say awfult things)

Pg 26

Sally takes her apron off, and sucks on her straw. There's nothing that
reminds her of home quite like the taste of a chocolate milkshake. She
counts her tips while she sits at the bar waiting for her friends to get
off work.

"Rough night?"

"Brutal"

For a moment Sally didn't recognise the figure sitting next to her.

"Eric! How are you? How are your parents?"

"They're alright. This is Pyro, Ashley, and you know Jenna"

Their small talk could have lasted hours if they hadn't come here with
an agenda

"We need your help"

"What's going on?"

"We've come to do something about this whole Dumpf business.

"Ha. Good luck with that."

"I'm serious"

"Oh. I guess you're here for Ernie's son?"

"Can you put us in touch?"

"I can try."

"You should come with us"

"I can't. I've been planning this trip down the coast. I need to get
away"

"You're very good at that. Planning. And getting away"

Sally feels a twinge of sadness. Eric had it rough. **While she was
partying** in college on her parents dime, Eric was...well. It wasn't
fair. But why should she suffer for it? She did nothing wrong. She
worked hard to get to where she is. She\...**Whatever, she'll deal with
it tomorrow.**

**(**Gameplay: tap to drink and keep depression at bay)

**They say goodbye. Sally stares at what's left of her milkshake. She
polishes it off and orders another. Tonight's gonna be a big one**

Pg 27

Sally feels beads of sweat crawling on her skin as she thrashes around
on the dancefloor. She feels alive. Who cares that she'll feel sick
tomorrow. You have to live in the moment.

(gameplay: tap in time to music to keep dancing)

Sally would have danced till dawn, but sometimes life gives you lemons.
**And boy were these lemons tough**. Everything happened in a flash.

Gun shots. Blood everywhere. People screaming. Sally doesn't know what
to do. **She hides. She cries**. Why is this happening. Is it because
they're squirrels?

Pg 28

The police arrived within minutes. They took her statement and sent her
home. Just like that. What is she supposed to do now? She can hardly go
to sleep. She watches the news, waiting.

"Here's Ronald Dumpf to say a few words"

"\...the worst mass shooting in our country's history. A radical Islamic
terrorist targeted the nightclub\..."

Of course he's using this tragedy to push his Islama-phobic agenda. She
turns off the TV. She wants to blame him for everything. Always egging
people on. He's so unlikeable. GAH!

(gameplay: tap in time to music to stay calm)

Sally closes her eyes. She tries to calm herself down. We don't need any
more hate right now\...Horrible visions flash across her mind. Those
poor people. It co[uld've easily been me. Sally grapples with her own
mortality]{.mark}. Her life had flashed before her eyes. It was a good
life; good times; parties; traveling\...Sally had never felt more
selfish. Sometimes it takes a tragedy to make yo[u realise that you're
part of something bigger.]{.mark}

She feels determination taking hold. Her parents didn't slave away to
put her through law school so she could live the life O'Reily. She
should be doing something with her life. Giving back. Screw vacation. I
can travel after I've done something to make a difference. She stays [up
all night making phone calls.]{.mark} Sally gets things done.

Pg 29

Sally checks her phone and gets off the train. J[ust on time]{.mark}.
Who would've thought she'd be diving head deep into politics. Her
parents would be proud. She's overwhelmed, but she's alive. Boy is she
alive.

CHAPTER 6 (Ernie, The Mongoose)

Pg 30

Ernie wipes the sweat off his brow. That was a stellar rally. He's
really got a fighting chance this year. Valerie\'s been playing dirty,
striking in the dark, but he\'s determined not to stoop to her level.
His diehard fandom is growing by the hour. He's not doing it for the
fame and glory. He just really wants to make a difference.

"Siri, text Alice. Hi honey, I'm on my way, I'll be 15 min[utes
late]{.mark} "

(gameplay: tap in time to stay organised and keep overwhelm-ness at bay)

Ernie loves his da[ughter]{.mark}. He'll do anything for her. In some
way, he feels responsible for dragging her into this world of politics.
At least HE had had a choice. His father was a carpenter. B[ut Alice,
she was born into it.]{.mark}

Pg 31

Ernie loves his weekly l[unch with Alice. It's the one reprieve from
this nonstop mess of an election. He breaks into a jog. He hates being
late, but most things now are beyond his control.]{.mark}

[(gameplay: tap to jog)]{.mark}

[As he enters the cafe he is surprised to find his daughter with not 1,
but 5 grinning strangers.]{.mark}

[#"Dad, this is Sally, and her friends Pyro Ashley Jenna and Eric. Sally
and I went to grad school together"]{.mark}

Ernie greets them all politely. [The mild disappointment that was
perching firmly on his shoulder quickly dissipates when he sees the
passion in his daughter\'s eyes.\
\
For the first time in forever talking politics doesn\'t feel forced.
There\'s no manipulation, or ulterior motives. No guilt. Everyone here
just wants to make the world a better place. Oh to be young again.\
\
Pg 32\
\
Ernie never ceases to be amazed by the power of lateral thinking. Here
are 6 bizarre individuals, half of whom understand very little about the
current political climate, and they're coming up with the most brilliant
strategies.\
\
\"What if we take him down from within? There must be someone who is
sick of cleaning up his trash.\"\
\"What about Valerie?\"\
\"She\'s probably got him to rig the voting machine\"\
]{.mark}

[Ernie has a bad feeling about this]{.mark}

[(gameplay: tap to keep "bad feeling" at bay, but then you miss
important info)\
\
\"What does Ronald have to do with the voting machines?"\
\"I was working for a company he owns, off the books of course. One day
they threw me on another job, delivering these machine, the voting
machines\"\
\
Ernie can\'t believe his ears. That\'s a blatant conflict of interest.
And of course there\'s no proof. Ernie calls the office.\
\
\"Get everyone together. It\'s an emergency\"]{.mark}

Pg 33

The more they dig, the more they see how ludicrous the system really is.
Big corporations throwing around millions, funding these puppets,
creating the illusion of democracy.

(gameplay: tap to uncover info)

As they chase the paper trail, Ernie is flabbergasted to discover that
Sintown and Dumpf have been in each other\'s pockets for years. They put
on these displays of competition, these spectacles, but really they\'re
two peas in a pod, hoodwinking us all

"Ernie, you've gotta run as an independent"

(gameplay: memory?)

Ernie can't help but remember the last time someone ran as an
independent. That's where it all went wrong; it split the party vote and
we ended up with a war-mongering climate denier as president. The road
to hell is paved with good intentions.

"I've got a better plan. We're gonna beat them at their own game."

Pg X

Ernie was hoping that it wouldn't come to this, but he's got no choice.
When the game is rigged against you, and there's millions of lives at
stake, sometime you've gotta put aside your principles and get your
hands a little dirty.

"I'll be out of town; they can't know that I had anything to do with
this. We'll lull them into a false sense of security and when they're
least expecting it, we'll catch them in the act"

Everyone has a role to play. The plan is good. It's dirty, but no one
has to get hurt. It's the best chance they've got. Ernie get's on a
plane, and hopes for the best.

(gameplay: puzzle?)

"See you on the other side."

CHAPTER 7 (Baldrick the Bald Eagle)

Pg X

Baldrick watches Ronald Dumpf laughing hysterical at the fox news
re-runs. Who are these people. It's starting to look like he might
ACTUALLY win.

"Sir, I think it's time you time to pull the plug on this one or you
might actually end up in the oval office"

"Hush Baldrick. This is too much fun"

"But sir, don't you think it might be too much responsibility?"

"I see what you're doing there. You're looking at me thinking, this man
would make a great leader, but he's humble, probably doesn't want to
deal with all that unwanted attention, and you're right, it's not really
my cup of tea, but you know what, I think I can handle it"

What utter nonsense. Baldrick is beginning to regret his decision to run
this man's election campaign.

Pg X

Baldrick stares at the row of pastries before him. Ronald's got him
running another fool's errand.

"He wants one with pecans, but no vanilla, and caramel can't touch the
pastry"

"We don't have that"

"I'll give you, like, \$20"

"I'm sorry"

"50?"

"Umm\...let me get my manager"

As Baldrick waits he notices a group of people smiling at him. He smiles
back, not sure why they might be smiling at HIM. They beckon him to
their table.

"You're Baldrick"

"Yes. Do I know you?"

"You work for Dumpf, don't you"

"For now"

"We should chat"

Baldrick notices the mongoose stickers on their bags

"You're with Ernie, aren't you? I can't be talking to you"

"If you change your mind, come find us"

He watches them leave. As he chats pastry with the manager, Baldrick
wishes he had backed a better horse.

(gameplay: math)

Pg X

As he steps out of the elevator, Baldrick notices an unusual amount of
~~garbage leaking from under his door~~ #notifications on his phone.
What's he done now?

"Relax Baldrick, I've got this under control"

"Sir, we talked about this. If I'm going to run your campaign, you can't
be saying things without checking in with me"

"Well, what can I say Baldrick, I slipped up. So sue me. But you know
what, they look at me and they think, he's a smart guy. He's a hard
working guy, nobody works harder than me. And you know what, they're not
wrong. All I'm saying."

"What's that, sir?"

"What's what?"

"All you're saying"

"I'm saying I've made sacrifices. I make sacrifices every day. You know
what I mean?"

"No, I don't sir."

"Quit being a smartass Baldrick. Do you want this job or not? Don't
answer that, of course you want this job. Now go and help Dolly clean up
my office"

"Who's Dolly?"

"Molly? Martha? These interns change so fast. I'm not sure she even said
her name. In fact, I know she didn't, cos if she did, I would remember
it. I'm very good with names. Very good. Believe me"

Baldrick sighs. You'd think that after 18 months the man would recognise
a senior staff member by face if not by name; poor Angela. Not even a
thank you.

(gameplay: clean up trash. No point either way)

Pg X

What a long week. Baldrick is ready to unwind. He locks his office and
heads towards the exit\...but he doesn't get very far.

Ronald's on TV again. What's he done this time?

(gameplay: tap to not give a shit)

"I just saw that people needed help, so I helped them. It's what I do. I
help people. I've very good at that. Believe me."

Baldrick changes the channel.

#"As mayor, I'd like to publicly decry the visit of presidential
candidate Ronald Dumpf. We are in a state of crisis with these floods,
and his presence was unhelpful, and just made more mess. If he wants to
help, he should consider donating, or signing up to actually volunteer.

"He was literally here for less than a minute, his camera crew set up,
he handed out maybe 15 packages, and then they packed up and left. "

Baldrick is flabbergasted. Just when he thought it couldn't get any
worse.

(gameplay: tap to stay calm and not give a shit)

He storms into Ronald's office.

"What happened to keeping it simple? I wrote you a nice, considerate
speech!"

"The speech sucked. So I changed it. I made it better. That's what I do.
I make things better."

"Have you seen the news?

"They love me;"

"The REAL news? Do you even know what's going on? People are dying.
They're losing their homes. And all you see is a media opportunity?"

"Go home Baldrick, you're tired"

"I AM tired. I'm tired of your garbage. I'm tired of your utter lack of
consideration for anyone other than yourself. I can't believe I helped
you with this ludicrous campaign. I should've ended it months ago."\
"You couldn't end it if you tried"

"Watch me"

"You're fired!

"Oh I quit."

"Get out of my sight. Lucy, get me a new campaign manager"

"Her name is ANGELA and she's been here for almost 2 YEARS"

Angela stares at her feet.

"Are you staying or going honey? Cos I've got hundreds of women-
thousands- just dying to get their hands on\...your job."

Baldrick gets it. She's got a family to look after. It's hard to leave
such good money. But there's only so much garbage you can swallow. It's
only a matter of time before you burst.

Pg X

Baldrick bursts through the doors, turning several heads.

"Let's take the bastard down"

"You must be here for Ernie"

Baldrick blushes as he remembers that not everyone is constantly
thinking about the upcoming election. He follows the receptionist to
Ernie's office. He understands why millions of people are die-hard
supporters for his cause. What a humble little office

"Welcome"

"Thank you"

"Have you come to lend a hand to a good a cause?"

"I have"

They talk for hours. Ernie's a fascinating guy.

Pg X

Baldrick runs a hand through his hair. Big day today. Lots of folk
coming out to be political. There's Ronald Dumpf, at it again. Leading
sheep to the slaughter. They actually believe he's one of them.

"Let's make this country GREAT again"

Baldrick feels a pang of shame. He can't believe that HE helped make
this happen. What was he thinking. But it's ok. He's gonna set things
right.

(gameplay:? shame?)

Baldrick heads out onto the stage. The podium feel bigger than he
remembers it. He's used to seeing it on a TV screen

"Until last week, I was campaign leader for the Ronald Dumpf campaign. I
helped the man fabricate thousands of lies, and this is my confession"

Pg X

Baldrick joins the others in the chase. Ronald's hiding in the Dumpf
Tower. Trash is oozing from the walls. Baldrick smiles. They've got him
cornered now.

(gameplay: tap in time to chase)

As they reach his office, the smells of smoke assaults their senses. He
must be burning all the evidence. The doors are locked. It looks like
he's\...yep. Ronald Dumpf can't stop himself. He's building walls left
right and centre.

"I'm very good at building walls. Nobody builds walls better than me"

"Stop! You're gonna suffocate!"

"Well, we'll just have to see about that"

"There's too much smoke"

He's gone delirious. He's gonna burn the whole building down if he's not
careful. Or maybe that's what he wants?

"You'll never catch me alive!"

As much as they'd like to see him burn, they know that nobody deserve
that fate. They're gonna have to rescue him.

(gameplay: tap to do nothing)

"If we could just break the window it would buy us enough time to..."

Baldrick acts without thinking. He charges at the door with the
fire-fighters axe. The flames are getting out of control. He swings
again and again.

(gameplay: tap to keep going despite being exhausted and scared)

Finally! He breaks through. Ronald's on the floor coughing.

"Help me! please!"

Baldrick drags him through the smoke. He's heavy. But nobody deserves to
burn alive. A chunk of roof collapses. Are they gonna make it?

Four pairs of hands join in to help. They drag him swiftly through the
doorway, just in time! Phew! This'll be one for the grandkids.

Pg X

Baldrick watches the news as Ernie and Valerie negotiate.

"Ronald Dump was found guilty of treason, as well as several counts of
embezzlement and arson. An investigation is still being conducted into
the involvement of president Sintown in these accusations-"

Baldrick smiles. Everyone's been smiling lately. It really feels like
the world is safe once more. Sure, there are still atrocities being
committed every day, but we're well on our way to a better tomorrow.
Baby steps.

\(E\) "I'm glad we could reach an agreement. You're in a unique position
to make the world a better place Valerie. I wish you'd just embrace it,
and live up to be the hero that your fans see in you. I'm doing you a
favour"

\(V\) "You're just like the rest of us"

\(E\) "My bank account would disagree"

\(V\) "Go f-"

CREDITS + epilogue

Ashley returned home to her beloved forest. She joined the reforestation
team and is studying online to become a conservation ecologist.

Pyro started a farmer's union and works with hundreds of farmer to help
them stand up to sacred moon seed company. He's working with Sally to
overthrow up their monopoly on GMOs.

Jenna had a baby girl. She's so in love with her. With some help from
her friends, she is finding time to study to become a social worker.
Soon she'll be helping all sorts of people with all sorts of problems

Eric and Sally are making it work. With the Dump name in ruins, Eric
scooped up some construction contracts and is making a name for himself
in the city.

Sally's back in law, trying to make the world a better place one case at
a time. Who knows, maybe she'll be a supreme court judge someday. She
stills serves at a little diner one day a week, just for the fun of it.

Ernie's working hard as always, making policies, and looking out for the
interests of the people. He loves his job even more now that that he
gets to work with his daughter. Alice likes it too

Baldrick took a break from politics. He joined a rugby team and took up
painting. He's considering a career in firefighting, but he's getting
old, and maybe he'll just open up a second hand bookshop. Maybe.

Why'd you have to leave me?

Why\'d you have to go?

I was just a baby

You didn\'t even know me

Now you screen my phone calls

Are you scared that I\'ll be mad?

I promise I won\'t make you pay

I just wanna know my dad

I've been dreaming of sorries

For as long as I can say

I keep fighting off this feeling

But it's not gonna go away

I just want to know you're sorry

I don't need some grand display

I'm not one to harbour grudges

Two simple words can make it all okay

Shelters, Garbage cans and dumpsters

In the winter's freezing snow

I was just a fucking kid, mom

Where was I supposed to go?!

I've been dreaming of sorries

For as long as I can say

I keep fighting off this feeling

But it's not going away

I just want a normal fam'ly

Happy parents, and a dog

A dad who helps with girls and homework

And cheers me on at rugby games

I've been dreaming of sorries

For as long as I can say

I'm not one to harbour grudges

Two words can make it all okay

I just want to know you're sorry

I don't need some grand display

I keep fighting off this feeling

But it's not going away

Assassinate (dress as a wolf and go to the final rally)

-   Someone just as bad takes over, supreme court still crappy

Identity theft / Hacking his money

-   You become "Trump". You try to make change from within, but it's
    > harder than you think

Social Media Campaigning

-   Everyone take a photo when you vote, that way we'll have proof they
    > fudged the numbers.

A brief history of the 21st century

-   Gore/Bush

-   9/11

-   Sudan

-   Iraq

-   London Bombing

-   Israel Palestine

-   North Korea

-   Crimea

-   Barack Obama

-   Iran goes nuclear

-   Syria

-   Climate change

-   Hadron collider

-   Mars has water

-   Gravitational waves

-   Human Genome

-   Stem cells

-   Super virus

-   Anti-vax

-   Neural Networks

-   Smartphones

-   Internet of things

-   Internet

-   Facebook / Social media

-   BP spill

-   Fires: australia, fort mac

-   Housing bubble

-   Virtual Reality

-   

Beginning: It's not my problem

Middle: there's nothing I can do

End: "You can't give up" or "it's hard it's slow"

Ashley story

-   Off-grid survivalist comes to the city to assassinate trump to save
    > his beloved forest, but realises that violence is not the only way

    -   Ashley is camping in his favourite place. He listens to the
        > Radio imploring listeners to vote to stop Trump. "Not my
        > problem"

    -   Men with chainsaws come to harvest the forest, build
        > sewage/fracking into the river. Ashley: "you can't do that!
        > This is a protected land", to which they respond "for now, but
        > wait till Trump wins. We're just getting a head start"

    -   Ashley packs his things and heads to stop Trump.

    -   ~~On the way he sabotages some of these projects.~~

Morgan story (Pyro)

-   Lone-wolf comes to the city to win back her Farm when the big bank
    > threaten to take it away

    -   Ashley drops in on an old acquaintance, asking for his help in
        > stopping Trump. Pyro turns him away, saying "it's not my
        > problem. I don't get involved in politics"

    -   Pyro loves his goat. He's a loner, working on his secluded farm

    -   Bank manager + Monsanto rep come to his door, threatening to
        > take away his farm. He says they can't do that. They say "not
        > yet, but when Trump becomes president, you better watch out!"

    -   Pyro cleans up the trash they've spewed, and sets out to help
        > Ashley

    -   ~~On the way they sabotage some Monsanto facilities?~~

Jenna story ()

-   Pregnant girl from the suburbs comes to the city when she is kicked
    > out of her group home and her income assistance isn't enough to
    > look after the baby. Healthcare.

    -   On their way, Ashley and Pyro encounter Jenna, an old friend,
        > still living in a group home. They invite her to come help
        > them deal with Trump. She says "I can't. It's not my problem,
        > and I gotta look out for my baby"

    -   In the group, a senior staff member tells her now that she's
        > pregnant she won't be allowed to stay there anymore. Tries to
        > pressure her into having an abortion. "You can't make me do
        > that", "maybe not yet, but after the election, it'll be
        > mandatory, or you'll have to give it up for adoption. Homeless
        > people shouldn't be having children"

    -   Jenna packs her stuff, and joins Ashley and Pyro

Eric ()

-   A construction worker comes to the city when they realise that Trump
    > will deport them because he doesn't believe in birthright
    > citizenship

    -   The crew run into X who they knew as kids. Invite him to help.
        > "He's gonna have you deported. He's gonna build a wall!" ,
        > "he's not actually gonna do that. Anyway, I can't leave, I
        > need the money"

    -   X's boss fires him. "You can't do that!" "maybe not yet, but
        > after the election, you're gonna be gone, and I gotta make
        > sure I wanna be investing in someone who's gonna be here for a
        > while. Sorry"

    -   X joins the crew

-   They visit all the bureaucratic establishments where they encounter
    > pro-trump employees AND jaded employees who tell them that there's
    > nothing they'll be able to do if Trump wins

-   They all talk about how they're gonna stop TRUMP

    -   Assassinate (dress as a wolf and go to the final rally)

        -   Someone just as bad takes over, supreme court still fucked

    -   Identity theft / Hacking his money

        -   You become "Trump". You try to make change from within, but

    -   Campaigning

-   

-   Trump, dressed like a sheep, is leading the sheep to the slaughter,
    > pied piper style. Also dressed as sheep are: big banks,
    > corporations

-   When the crew blow his cover, the fight moves back to the Trump
    > tower

-   The crew gets trump to build a wall around himself, and Trump drowns
    > in his own trash

Along the way the crew encounters countless people who are having the
wool pulled over their eyes by wolves dressed as sheep. Each sheep
gradually becomes either a wolf or a turkeys. You can prevent this by
picking up the trash, and scaring off the wolves

-   Beavers = hardworking

-   Camel = snob

-   Hippo = glutennous

-   Mouse = quiet

-   Raccoon = criminal? Scavenger, petty thief

-   Sloth = lazy

Along the way we hear updates about the election

-   It's too close to call. They say this year is going to be the
    > closest election ever, with a few hundred votes deciding the fate
    > of this country

-   

Trump = Ronald Dumpf

Hilary = Valery Sintown the snake?

Bernie = Ernie the mongoose

TRUMP POLICY

-   Mexico wall

-   China trade

-   Muslim

-   Gun Control

-   Taxes

-   Free trade

-   Energy / Climate change . Pipeline, Paris climate agreement, anti
    > endangered species protection

-   Anti Vax

-   Anti queer supreme court picks

-   Journalist defamation laws

SONGS

-   Life is good / ok / sufficient / mediocre

    -   All the characters sing

    -   "I live in paradise" "it's close to paradise" "It's not quite
        > paradise" "It's hardly paradise" "It sure ain't paradise" "I
        > dream of paradise"

-   It's not my problem

-   There's nothing I can do

-   "You can't give up" or "it's hard it's slow"

-   google knows everything / Critical thinking

    -   Auto-complete "I swear I wasn't thinking that!"

-   A world I want to live in

    -   That's not a world I want to live in

-   

Paradise

Life is good to me

I'm living in a paradise

I'm staring at a pair of eyes that love me

Hard and Slow

> Moving on is always hard
>
> Asking for support is hard\
> Letting go of guilt is hard
>
> It's hard, it's slow, but it's the only way to grow
>
> And maybe it seems hard to fathom\
> Ever climbing from this chasm
>
> Drowning in the world's sarcasm
>
> It's hard, it's slow, but it's the only way to grow\
> It's hard, it's slow, but it's the only way to grow
>
> It's hard, it's slow, but it's the only way to grow\
> You can do it
>
> you can make if you try
>
> You can turn around your life
>
> You can do it
>
> You can do it
>
> You can do it
>
> You can do it

1.  TONE

    a.  Magical Synchronicity feeling

    b.  ???

2.  Game Mechanics as metaphor

    a.  Voting

        i.  You have to convince the characters' brains to act certain
            > ways by voting

    b.  It's not my problem

    c.  I can't change anything

    d.  Evil prevails when good men do nothing

        i.  Baldrick has turn off all the garbage spouters before too
            > many people are converted.

    e.  Politics = overwhelming / confusing

    f.  Politicians = spewing garbage / shit

        i.  By preventing others from eating that garbage you are
            > helping

        ii. Trap people in bubbles, making them float. When bubbles pop,
            > they fall and die. Ernie provides tethers.

        iii. 

    g.  
