[Relationship]{.underline}

DESCRIPTION

A relationship is a set of social interactions between two or more
people from the point that they discover one another until they cease to
exist. Each participant in a relationship has something they want from
it, which may change over time. Generally a relationship develops
following a specific pattern which we will call the RELATIONSHIP LIFE
CYCLE.

GOALS

The goals of a relationship are to fulfil our social needs. This can
range from needing conversation, to needing physical contact, to needing
help, to needing security, etc.

STAGES

The relationship begins with some sort of **Initial Attraction.** It may
be physical, it may be something someone has told you, it may be just an
intuitive feeling. If you decide to enter into a conversation or some
other form of interaction, you begin to explore this **Attraction**.
After you have gathered enough information about each other, you reach
**Decision Point #1: Approval Point** where you decide whether or not
you want to continue this relationship. This decision is usually based
on whether or not you: enjoy spending time with them, can relate to
them, see potential in them. At this point, the relationship either A)
dissolves and ceases to exist until some external force makes you
re-evaluate the situation, or, B) begins to ascend the **Infatuation
Incline.** Here you discover everything that is amazing about them and
somehow manage to ignore their flaws. Eventually, you discover their
"flaws" ... which brings you down the **Doubt Decline**. ... Eventually
you are forced to face these flaws which brings you to **Decision Point
#2**. Here you find a way to deal with these flaws either by ending the
relationship or by accepting the flaws and ascending a new incline. At
this point the relationship is in a **Stability Stage**. Periodically
you find new flaws and drop to the a new **Decision Point** at which
point you either accept the flaws and continue up the incline, or end
the relationship.

DECISION POINT

Periodically, you may reach a point in the relationship where you are no
longer enamoured by the each other. This can be due to someone changing,
or someone\'s flaws becoming harder to deal with, or a number of other
reasons. At this point, you are forced to either accept the relationship
for what it is, or end it.

[Attraction]{.underline}

DESCRIPTION

You meet someone for the first time. You initiate some sort of social
interaction,e.g. A conversation!You continue interacting on a fairly
basic level, until you reach a point where you have enough information
to gage whether or not you want to continue investing in this person:
Decision point #1. The thing to remember is that they are undergoing a
similar sort of selection process, so, by the time they reach decision
point, you need to have shown them that you are worth the investment.

GOALS

1.  [To Find Mutual Ground]{.underline}\
    > By finding mutual ground, you make yourself relatable to the other
    > person. This can be as simple as enjoying the same things, having
    > a similar experience, knowing the same people.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
2.  [To Find Unique Ground and Break Generics]{.underline}

By finding unique ground, you prove to each other that this relationship
has potential to be more special than the average, generic relationship.
This can be achieved by coming up with theories about how the world
works, or finding odd things that only you (plural) do.

3.  [To Create Fun and Demonstrate Enthusiasm]{.underline}

By creating fun you demonstrate that you are not socially retarded. Fun
takes many forms; if you can\'t find one that works for the
relationship, you\'ll probably come across as a boring person.

METHODS

1.  [Offers]{.underline}

    -   E.g. What\'s your favourite [*song*?]{.underline} Is an offer to
        > talk about your music taste

    -   E.g. Wanna come *[shoe shopping]{.underline}* with me? Is an
        > offer to spend time together, with potential to find unique
        > ground if you end up buying shoes whilst together

2.  [Body Language]{.underline}

    -   E.g. Smiling often means you like them or what they are saying

    -   E.g. Crossing your arms can be interpreted as negative body
        > language

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
3.  [Jokes]{.underline}

    -   E.g. If you make them laugh, you create fun

    -   E.g. if you take an idea an blow it out of proportion

    -   E.g. if you tell interesting anecdotes or stories about yourself
        > or friends of yours

[Infatuation Incline]{.underline}

DESCRIPTION

Having decided that the relationship is working, you begin to ascend the
infatuation incline. You begin to idolise them and ignore their faults.
You enjoy their company. You increase your exposure to them and start
seeing each other more. You create a sense of infinity e.g. make plans
for the future.

PATHS A: Perpetuate the Infatuation

GOALS

1.  [Create a sense of Infinity]{.underline}

By creating a sense of infinity you create the illusion that the
relationship will indefinitely continue up the infatuation incline in
this fashion.

2.  [Deny their flaws]{.underline}

By denying the existence of their flaws you stall your descent down the
doubt decline. If you don\'t know that the faults exists then it is
impossible for you to deal with them.

METHODS

-   Make plans to see them in the future

    -   e.g. To work on a project together

    -   e.g. To go do an activity together

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Avoid situations which they need to prove themselves

    -   As long as you are unaware of their "flaws" you will continue up
        > the infatuation incline

    -   e.g. Don\'t ask them for favours that they can\'t easily do

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Manage Expectations

    -   Don\'t expect something of them that they can\'t do

    -   e.g. Don\'t expect them to be on time if they\'re the kind of
        > person who is always late

PATH B: To Reach Stability (be wary of this one!)

GOALS

1.  [Expose Flaws]{.underline}

By exposing each other\'s flaws you push yourself down the doubt
decline, forcing each other to deal with the flaws either by accepting
them or by ending the relationship

2.  [Manage Expectations]{.underline}

By managing each others\' expectations you ensure that there are no
unpleasant surprises that could destabilise the relationship e.g. if you
always lie to each and know it, then you won\'t get hurt when you
discover a lie\...conversely, if you usually are quite helpful and then
suddenly purposefully do something that is a hindrance, you will shake
the foundations of the relationship.

3.  [Provide Security]{.underline}

By providing security you prove that you are a valuable asset.

METHODS

-   Discuss personal things

    -   e.g. Mistakes you\'ve made

    -   e.g. Your feelings about something

-   Create situations where you need to prove yourself

    -   e.g. Find ways to do them favours

    -   e.g. Exchange secrets (if you have any)

-   Be reliable

    -   e.g. Turn up on time

    -   e.g. If you say you\'ll do something then do it

Doubt decline

DESCRIPTION

Eventually, their flaws start coming out and diminishing your
infatuation e.g. they might always turn up late to everything, or they
might be insensitive about something you care about. You might find ways
to ignore these faults, in which case you perpetuate the infatuation
stage. However, at some point, you will recognise their flaws and float
down the doubt decline. Here you start to identify everything that could
put an end to this relationship. Eventually you reach Decision Point #2.

Stability

DESCRIPTION

Once you\'ve reached stability, there should be few surprises. By this
point you will have uncovered most of their flaws, and so the
relationship shouldn\'t be too volatile. Periodically, people change and
new flaw come up, or their old flaws start getting to you and you cease
to accept them. At this point you will descend to Decision Point again.

Solve Problems together

Work on projects together

Make plans together

Jokes

Questions
