(aka toning circle)

# DESCRIPTION:

Connect with spirit through voice and sound.

Sacred Sound Ceremony is a vocal meditation (similar to an Om Circle or
a Toning Circle) where we sing and vocalise together, creating a sacred
space for healing and spiritual connection.

Sacred Sound Ceremony is a co-creation. An all-faith prayer (Atheists
included). We welcome people from all backgrounds and at all stages of
their spiritual journey.

Come as you are. We welcome your medicine. (If you'd like to bring
something to share with the group, please check in with us beforehand).

Sacred Sound Ceremony is also a deeply personal experience. During the
ceremony people may laugh, cry, and rage, as they process their
experience. We invite you to respect each other\'s process, and we set
the intention to hold space for each other to the best of our ability.

Ceremony usually lasts for 45-60 minutes, with a chance to debrief and
unwind afterwards over tea and snacks.

Message us for the address. Limit of 10 people due to space
restrictions!

PWYC

For more information about Dramatic Changes, visit
www.dramaticchanges.ca

\*Accessibility notice: our current location is up 2 steps, with
bathrooms up another 10-20 stairs.

\*\* Let us remember that we are on Mi\'kmaki, unceded, unsurrendered,
land of the Mi\'kmaw people who have watched over this land for
countless generations. Let us acknowledge that we share this land with
all living beings, and we carry a responsibility to look after the land,
the water, the sky, and all the environment for the well-being of all.
May we act with a good heart and a good mind. Msit No\'kmaq (all my
relations)

# How To Host

1)  Prepare the Snacks

Tea.

Home-made Bread

Lentils.

Try to keep the snacks neutral. Accommodate vegans

2)  Prepare the Space

Arrange cushions and blankets

Turn on mood lighting

Prepare candles and medicines

Smudge and Cast Protection Spells

3)  Welcoming People

As people arrive invite them to make tea and get comfortable

Share guidelines for the space around bathrooms, talking in the ceremony
room.

Explain what Dramatic Changes does, and how they can get involved

Explain how donations work, and invite people to join committees if they
enjoy the event

Remind people to turn off their phones

4)  Initiating the Ceremony

This is a co-creation.

Land acknowledgement.

Start with three deep breaths.

5)  The Ceremony

As a host, keep tabs on how everyone seems to be doing.

If you notice anyone who is struggling, try to support them
energetically and with medicines.

If you feel the energy of the group going somewhere unsafe, try to reel
it in to accommodate everyone present.

6)  Closing The Ceremony

The ceremony will reach a lull of its own accord.

Lead the closing with a few unspoken deep breaths.

Thank everyone.

If it feels right, invite everyone to share one word of sentence
expressing how they're doing.

Invite people to socialise and debrief in another room.

7)  Post Ceremony debrief / unwind

If you notice that someone had a difficult time, and is not feeling
social, offer to sit with them.

Let people know when it's time to start heading out.

Clean up.
