So here I am. In Halifax Nova Scotia. A place I never thought I'd come
back to. The seven years I lived here I kept hoping I'd fall in love
with it, but I never did manage to acclimatise to the overwhelming air
of dread that seems to linger in the air, although, over the years I did
get better at weaving in and out of places so it wouldn't stick to me
like a rotting carcass.

I know this place is beautiful. I can see it through the cracks. There's
a powerful energy here. It's just buried under years and years of
hardship. It's a poor province with a humble people, and a horrific
history, just like every colonial outpost in the developed world. But
underneath it all are kind, simple people. There's always kind, simple
people. Underneath it all.

It's hard to say when the world really started going crazy. The
pandemic, yes, but it was really much earlier than that. Maybe it's
always been crazy. Or maybe it comes in waves. They taught us about the
Cold War in school, people ratting out neighbours over nothing. Lives
being ruined because the collective hysteria reached an untenable peak.
I think we all want to believe that people are fundamentally good, but
times like these the optimism wears a little thin.

I'm not exactly homeless, per se. Maybe in the technical sense, in that
I don't have a house, or a permanent address, but I live in a van.
Sorta. I just spent four months in the deep north, stoking fires in a
wood cabin where it's -35 degrees outside. Don't think I woulda made it
on my own. I guess I was a guest. They looked after me well. It was a
nice relief from what I had before. A break from the endless barrage of
impossible problems that I kept putting off 'til later. A break from the
constant battle with moisture. It's like the earth is saying "have some
more water" and you're like "thanks, I have enough", and it's like "no,
I insist" and so your stuff's always on the verge of being a little wet.
I guess I should be grateful. They say water is life. They're not wrong.
But it was nice to have a break from always worrying about the weather.

It's been about a year since life lit a fire under my ass and moved me
into a van. In the middle of a truly dastardly housing crisis, I
happened to have one of the nicest landlords, who charged a very
affordable rent, in a very appealing neighbourhood, and I may have just
stayed there a hellova long time, drowning in a quicksand of
complacency, or perhaps decision paralysis, were it not for the kind but
uncomfortable we're-not-renewing-your-lease conversation that came about
after a long bout of
I'm-living-alone-in-a-3-bedroom-house-I-cant-really-afford. I guess that
breakup-I'm-still-recovering-from needed some air to breathe and the
ghosts of our past that filled every corner of the house weren't gonna
let that happen.

They say "when one door closes, another door opens", but they usually
forget the punchline: "other than that, it's a pretty good van". There
was a perfectly good, magical, beautiful van sitting in my backyard that
was just one legal dispute, and a couple of weeks hard labour away from
being my future home. Life's pretty good at foreshadowing, to have put
it there for me. In truth I'd be on-and-off-again dreaming about tiny
home living for years now, and while i was out of my depth by at least
20%, this was the perfect opportunity. While I'd bought this van with my
ex, we had never driven it, and no ghost-of-lovers-past seemed to linger
in it. So much so that when we first broke up, I spent a month living in
my backyard because this van was the only neutral ground I could find.
The irony of living in a van in your backyard while paying rent for a 3
bedroom house that stands idle on prime real estate during a housing
crisis. But my life was full of moments like that. Irony runs thick in
my blood.

I spent a week or two trying to grind the rust off her poor little body.
Managed to get her all patched up with only a couple of major fibreglass
injuries. There's that classic moment of horror, when you're hands are
covered in epoxy, so you can't touch anything, and you're trying to wash
it off, but it's just smearing it around, and you have maybe 10 minutes
left before it sets, and you wanna call 911, but you can't touch your
phone or you'll be stuck to it, not to mention ruining a perfectly good
phone. And you're not 100% sure, but there's a good chance this might be
the kinda stuff that they can't do anything about once it's cured, and
you wonder why oh why didn't I wear gloves, but then the next time it
happens, you realise that wearing gloves somehow didn't help either and
you're just an inexperienced fool making rookie mistakes. TLDR: soap.
Just use soap. And scrub harder

Bruno, a lovely mechanic who owned a shop down the street which was
inexplicably called "Carlo's" charged me an arm and a leg for a
legitimate safety sticker which he was hesitant to give me with a full
sized air conditioner sticking out out my back windows held on by bolts.
The minute I leave his shop, I hear a loud noise and suddenly my
steering isn't working and I'm in the middle of the road and there's
cars piling up behind me, and I'm freaking out. I don't have a phone so
I can't call anyone. Luckily I know a place with wifi just down the
street. I leave my van in the middle of the road with the hazard lights
on, and I run. "Bruno! I need help!". It takes him barely two minutes to
put in a temporary fix, and he says "it could last an hour, or it could
last for years." It's still working great. Boy it's hard to park a van
without power steering. I guess owning a vehicle is one of those
learn-things-on-the-job kinda scenarios.

I mentioned that the van was magical, and I wasn't kidding. We named her
bluejay, my friend Erin and I, partially because she was blue, and this
one time we found a bluejay feather, but really it's because she's a
little trickster. But the good kind. Like me. Hopefully. She always has
my back.

The first time she "broke down", I was at a ceremony. I was just about
to start that two hour journey home, when she decided she wasn't gonna
start. This had happened a few times before, but you just had to jiggle
the key, or whack the battery a little. Seven days she wouldn't start.
All the mechanics I called were either busy or away. If I were anywhere
else I'd be in trouble. I'm not equipped to handle problems like this.
But I happened to be on a ceremony ground, and there was work for me to
do here. I got to spend time with Jane, and her lodge. Clean up some
trails and rat poop in the cabin. Faith can take you a long way. I had a
really beautiful time.

A week later, Perry, a sweetheart local mechanic came over and helped
diagnose the problem. After 10 minutes of tinkering he was pretty sure
I'd need a new starter. He was about to head to order me one when get's
outta the car and says "let me try one more thing" and he runs a jumper
cable from the battery to the starter, and boy was I happy when that van
started up. That \$400 get-a-new-start fix just became a \$20
get-a-new-cable fix, but I did it one better. By some miracle that makes
absolutely no sense, I decided to pull out a little copper wire I had in
my crafting supplies and I just kinda shoved it in to where the old
battery cable was fraying, and then I tied it around the terminal, and I
admit it was a little finicky, but that fix got me through for a couple
of months until I had to replace the battery, because it turns out the
battery, which through some miracle survived a Halifax winter in the
cold without being driven, was on it's last legs and in reality that was
probably the culprit.

And how did I find that out? Well, I was driving to a ceremony (notice
the pattern yet?) and I needed to get something from Canadian tire, so I
park in parking lot, and I do my shopping, and I get back to the van,
and she wont start. I fiddle with my copper contraption and tug it every
which way, and nada. I decide that since by some miracle I'm stuck just
outside Canadian tire, you know, the place which specializes in vehicle
related items, that maybe I should take my battery in and get it tested.
That things is heavy as hell, and getting it out of it's holder is rough
going, but I manage, streaks of grease all over my face. I get to the
counter and they run the tests and turns out it's a miracle that battery
was working at all. I put in a new battery and I haven't had a problem
since. That said, I took it inside and cradled it like a baby for the
-35 degree winter.

Another time I'm on a long trip with my buddy Erin (she always seems to
be there when the van breaks down) and she's driving on the highway, and
there a weird bursting sound, and something just doesn't feel right, so
we decide to turn off, and within a minute there's a mechanic's place so
we decide to pull over just in case and it's a Saturday but there's a
couple of guys working on something in the middle-of-nowhere oasis just
off of highway 3, and one of them comes over and sticks his head under
hood of the van and he tells us "You're lucky as hell you stopped when
you did. Here's what's left of your serpentine belt" and he holds out a
piece of rubber that looks like it's been through a shredder several
times over. "Another minute or two and your engine would'a exploded." So
we camp out overnight until the stores open up, except it's Sunday and
we don't know anyone in this area, and tomorrow I gotta drive across the
province for a weeklong ceremony. But you know what, Bluejay's got our
back. We spend the night braiding sweetgrass, and talking about big life
question. The next morning, Erin decides to hitchhike to the nearest
town, maybe 45 minute drive, where there's a store that probably has the
part we need. It's hot as hell. If it weren't for the mosquito netting
we'd put up I'd be eaten alive. But it's ok. I breathe. And I pray. And
not 2 hours later, Erin turns up. Apparently she got picked up within
minutes, and the guy was like "I'm not doing anything today, I'll drive
you where you're going" and then by the time the got there he was like
"you know what, I'll just drive you back too" and so here she was in the
blink of an eye, with a brand new serpentine belt. Except, neither of us
know how to put in a serpentine belt. And the cell service is non
existent. So Erin's standing on the roof trying to get cell service,
while I'm trying to wing my way through installing this belt, which is
harder than it looks, and in fact would not have been possible in a
million years were it not for the fact that Todd, the owner of the shop
happened to pop by and saw us struggling in his parking lot. 10 minutes
it took him to get that belt on. We would'a been there forever.

I'm a bit of a crazy person (aren't we all), and I half-believe that the
universe is sending me messages through my van. There's a couple of
times she wouldn't start, and I'm sitting there pleading with her like a
puppy that sits down and refuses to keep walking, "come on girl. You got
this. What's matter? Are you trying to tell me something? Should I not
go to gathering? Am I forgetting something? Hmm. Let me think. Should I
bring another instrument?" Turn the key. She won't start. "Should I stop
to get food? Is it rude showing up empty handed?" Turn the key, she
won't start. "Oh! I was supposed to send that very important email that
I totally would have forgotten about!" Turn the key: she starts right
up. Thank you bluejay!!

So I'm living in this van, dealing with an endless stream of impossible
problems, such as how do I get the air-conditioner outta the van? And
how do I fill the hole? Where do I get a new window? You know, money
solves a lot of problems, but when you don't have any, or aren't willing
to spend it, it can be quite an ordeal. The summer flies by pretty
quick, and I gotta think about the winter.

I just drove 22 hours in 2 days. It was one of those "keep driving or
the cold will getchya" kinda scenarios. Except maybe it wasn't. Maybe it
was just in my head. It's hard to know. We tell ourselves these stories,
and they become our realities. Maybe that's the big lesson that I'm
learning. Choose your stories, because they become your reality.

You know I think I manifested this. We'll have to talk about manifesting
later, but just take it with a grain of salt for now; treat it like a
story. I was probably 13, living in the suburbs of the most livable city
in the world, except the suburbs were an hour's train ride from town,
and my parents, god bless their souls, helicoptered me well into my
adolescence. Maybe I'm exaggerating, but they definitely kept me well
smothered, a fact that I didn't realise until many years later when I
ended up accidentally immigrating to the other side of the globe. But
that's a story for another time.

So here I am, a teenager living in the most liveable city in the world.
An unsheathed guitar strapped to my back, ready to be played at moments
notice, travelling an hour into town any chance I got, hoping
desperately to make friends that'll pluck me out of my suburban
nightmare like a ripe carrot. Freedom. I didn't know it, but I wanted
freedom. And in that naive young summer glow that tends to sweep over
pubescent teens in their fervent fancies, which coincidentally are
rarely grounded in reality, I decided, nay, proclaimed! that I would
someday be a wealthy homeless person, sleeping in the warm city summer
streets, prancing without a care amongst the people, playing my songs,
free from the shackles of these cages we call houses, which in a way had
become a symbol of my suburban hell. Of course, I'd never talked to
anyone who lived on the streets. Nor had I considered the ramifications
of such a reality. I think part of me liked the image of subverting
expectations. You don't often see a happy homeless person. But I was
just a kid, so maybe I can forgive myself that? And maybe there's a
grain of truth in that after all. But more on that later, dear reader,
lest my writing flames a rage too strong inside you before I've had a
chance to win you over with my redeeming qualities.

In a way, I guess 13 year old me wasn't far off. I'm living in a van,
with a respectable savings account. I'm not quite as happy as I thought
I'd be and I'm not playing as much music, but that's less a reality of
homelessness, and more the weight of the 15 years that stand between now
and then. I never thought I'd own a vehicle, so I guess I was wrong
about that.

I slept in my van last night. It was -11 outside, and I'd been driving
for 12 hours that day, having stopped maybe twice for gas and/or wifi.
I'd been fasting. Don't ask me why. But it definitely helped me
concentrate. I'd only gotten lost a couple of times,
#shouldagotaphoneplan, and the drive had been fairly kind to me. But now
it was night time, and I needed to sleep. And it was cold out. And I'm a
bit of a princess. I'd pulled off the highway after I noticed that my
eyes were starting to droop, and I landed in a fortuitous parking lot
that would have been the perfect parking spot with it's
not-too-bright-neon-lights and it shielded-from-the-highway-noise
qualities were it not for that one truck that seemed to idle all night
50 feet away from me.

I lit a couple of candles hoping they might chase away the smoke dragons
coming outta of my warm mouth into the cold air, and I layered up in the
snow gear I'd been wearing out north, and periodically sleep would take
me to a land of dreams, with an intermittent wake up call of the idling
truck's mechanics. I dreamed of archery. We were hunting birds of some
kind. That's my 3rd dream about archery this week; I wonder what it
means. By sunrise I was simultaneously rested and fatigued by thought of
trying to get any more sleep in these conditions. I could handle a night
of this, but two would be pushing it. If I had to, I'm sure I could live
like this for a long time, but the thought of it made me miserable.

Gas prices were up again. Diesel was \$1.64/L today. It was hard to
stomach, but I didn't have much choice. As I swiped my card, I thought
"thank god I don't have to worry about this". It was a mixture of deep
gratitude and a hazy disbelief. How did I get so lucky? I know exactly
how I got so lucky. A long line of immigrants who'd survived unthinkable
horrors, fresh in my DNA.

I realized at far too young an age that I didn't want to be a slave to
capitalism, and I valued my future freedom so much that I enslaved my
present self in an anxious prison of save-save-save. It's almost like I
knew the future was treacherous. I always felt it in my bones. I found a
way to lean into it, to enjoy the saving. I never felt like I was
denying myself anything important. I definitely was, but it didn't feel
that way. I was buying my freedom. And breathing the air today, I say
it's worth every penny.

I think of the tent city in Halifax. It's not like san-francisco where
the weather is perfect all year round. People will be dying in the cold
this year. And everyone who could have done something about it had
months of warning. For many, this will be their first year unable to
find a home. I say a prayer, and hug my van with all my might. Thank you
bluejay.

As I hit the highway, I notice that the weather is starting to turn.
It's a good thing I pushed through the night before and got past
Montreal and Quebec City. Aggressive drivers would have made this
journey impossible. As my windshield blurs from the snow I remember that
my driver side windshield wiper isn't working. The first couple of times
I pull over and wipe it with my glove, but it's only gonna get worse
from here. I'm driving with my left foot leaning over towards the
passenger side so I can see out the window. The slush on the ground is
forming ski-trails thick enough to prevent me from changing lanes, but I
still manage to overtake the oil tanker that's going 50 in this 100
zone. I remind myself to take it slow. But not too slow. If I don't get
home tonight I'm sleeping in the cold again.

The weather won\'t make up its mind; one minute it's a snow storm and
the next it's a flood. All that practice driving the snowdog on icy
roads up north prepared me well for hydroplaning 120 down a highway. In
another universe I might have been terrified and stopped, but I knew I
was protected.

I've always been protected. Nothing truly bad has ever happened to me.
I've always narrowly avoided disaster; sometimes through the grace of
friends and strangers, but there were times I look back and I was a coin
toss from splitting my head open on a rock. It's like someone's watching
over me. I imagine my parents and their parents praying for my
protection, and their prayers covering me with a thick translucent veil
of second chances. I picture all my ancestors watching over me, sweeping
the path before me as if it were a game of curling, subtly (or not!)
pointing me in the right direction when I'm too stuck to get out of my
own way. Sometimes it feels like life is all about getting out of my own
way.

It's amazing how quickly we acclimatise to new situations. My first day
back in Halifax felt almost depressingly normal. My friend Erin's been
trying to bring the outdoors in. Her house is full of nature, slowly
drying, hanging on the walls and off the shelves, desperately trying to
make sense of a winter that's neither here nor there, stuck in a
lifestyle that neither challenges nor fulfils you. We live in a time
where making it through the day has become a battle of willpower over
yourself. I think we all want to thrive, but reality is a slippery
sealion, and sense is in short supplies these days.

I visit Mike. His house looks the same. A little more grey slush on the
sidewalk, and a thick cloud of weed in the air that's new, but it all
feels about the same. I'm always surprised by how much nothing changes.
Maybe the truth is that I just keep looking at it through my own
self-centred lens, filtering out what doesn't make sense to me, throwing
out the baby with the bath water, as the saying goes. Especially because
in truth so much is always changing. We grow in spirals, revisiting
themes over and again each time with a little more perspective, a little
more umph, small incremental changes, imperceptible to the naked eye.

In truth, maybe I'm just scared that being back means all the beautiful
change that blessed my life up north will just evaporate and life will
go back to "normal". The old "Normal". I keep hearing people talking
about things going "back to normal". I think they're nuts. I mean, it's
true that the kinds of situations we put ourselves in influence the kind
of life we live, and the kinds of people we become, but if you ask me
the old normal is not a place we wanna go back to. Maybe the whole idea
of normal needs to go. Gotta get used to constant change, that's the way
of the future. Or maybe it's just been too long since my normal felt
like a good thing to me. In fact, I don't know if anybody I've met in
the last 8 years would say that their "normal" was a place they'd like
to stay in.

Walking down the street I run into Shayne. He's back from sailing the
arctic in an icebreaker. He's a mechanic in the navy. He tells me about
his latest breakup. Sounds familiar. He's gonna be alright. He's already
got a date lined up for tonight. It's nice to see his smiling face. He
bought an antique violin that's seen better days. I help put a new
string on. It plays nice. It's in pretty good shape all things
considered, just the outside's a little worn; the insides are looking
solid. I realise that I aspire to be more like that violin. I guess I'm
getting there. Slowly. Our bodies are really good at repairing
themselves. Sometimes it doesn't feel like that, but I'm pretty sure
it's true. It's kind of a miracle of nature. You break a bone, and your
body grows some new pieces to fix it. Sorta. The truth is kinda whatever
you want it to be these days.

I guess we've been in the middle of a global pandemic for the past
couple of years. I say "we" but in reality I've been pretty removed from
it. I don't see a lot of people, and I don't go a lot of places, so most
days I don't even have to think about it. But for about half the
geographic world, their lives are deeply inconvenienced in a way that
makes it feel like their world is falling apart, and for the other half,
their risk of death just skyrocketed and nobody is doing anything about
it.

The world is full of impossible problems.

I arrive at Ralph's where I can plonk my van and get some power and wifi
without having to worry about parking bylaws or hooligans trashing my
house. This was my home base in the summer, and coming home to it feels
surreal. Once more I notice how everything's changed, but really
nothing's changed at all. I walk around the property trying to get a
sense of the land under my feet. I make my offerings, to the water, to
the earth. I pray for protection. I pray for kindness. I pray for help
to be respectful. I'm learning to do this everywhere I go, but for some
reason it's a lot easier on a ceremony ground like Ralph's.

I say hello to the lodge. She feels like a spaceship, all charged up and
ready to take off. I hope we get to sweat soon. That'll really help me
feel placed. The fall ceremony was almost 6 months ago, but the memories
flash through my brain like it was only yesterday. For 8 days you're
suddenly living in a village of like-minded people focused on a single
goal. You get to be a teacher, and a student, and life just seems to
make sense. And then you go your separate ways and try to carry a bit of
that spark into your everyday life, to share it with people in your
life. But it's so damn ineffable.

They say in ceremony that if you have a powerful experience, a vision
perhaps, that you should let it flow, and not try to hold on to it. Give
your gratitudes, and observe it, but don't try to hold it in your grasp,
else it'll slip away, or worse, become distorted. I feel like that whole
ceremony was a giant vision.

I'm getting better at letting go. I used to feel a deep sadness or
perhaps bitterness upon remembering beautiful experiences. It hurt that
I couldn't recreate them, or manifest more of them. It made me feel so
powerless. I'd try to relive them in my mind's eye, hoping to recapture
some of that magic feeling that I perpetually yearned for. But that only
fueled the fire. Patience is a difficult skill to get a handle on. It
takes a lot of faith. And practice.

I start to unload my van a little. I think about the way that our
possessions weigh us down. A boon, if you're trying to sink your roots
in deeper, but when you're trying to fly, at some point you have to
start making difficult choices. I have less "stuff" than the average
person, but still half of it spends most of its time being garbage. Over
the years I've gotten a lot better at making snap decisions about what
is permanent garbage, and what is future gold. I'd be crying right now
with a cold wet van if it weren't for that block of insulation foam that
I'd been carrying around for months which now plugs the hole where my
rear door window used to be. But still, I can't help feel the weight of
my stuff.

I think about how stuff is tools. Keys to opening doorways. My musical
instruments, the electronics, even my clothes. I could definitely pare
them back by at least 20%, but I think of my dad. He's been paring back
his life in general, cutting out all the things he considered
distractions. He's cut out so much that there's nothing left to live
for. I think about the fact that I don't remember the last time I used
my fairly expensive camera. I could sell it, and be one hobby lighter in
my travels. But if I have a camera, then I might use it, and if I don't,
then I definitely won't. And while it's true that I could always buy
another one, the truth is I probably won't. So I keep the camera, hoping
that someday soon the inspiration will strike. Maybe I'm just scared
that if I let everything go then I'll just be sitting in my van, alone,
with nothing to do.

I built an electronic drum kit up north. It worked pretty good, and I
even played it now and then. There's no room for that in a van, but I
took it apart and brought it anyway. It's strange how the things you
need vary so wildly from situation to situation. My favourite chair,
which I carry from location to location even though there's no room for
it in my van, it's been an MVP many times. Every time I take it apart to
put it in storage I look forward to the next time I get to use it.

Up north, when I first realised it was time to go, I looked around and
there was all this stuff I had brought with me, and I thought "what am I
gonna do with this?" Each item had been invaluable so far, but now it's
weighing me down, and a small part of me just wanted to burn it all. The
thought of adventuring out west where the winters are warmer with a van
full of crap was just too much.

Today I woke up in my van feeling lost. There's only so much laying in
bed watching movies and eating snacks you can handle before you start to
wonder if you should be doing something more. I'm supposed to meet a
friend in town, but the thought of leaving my little bubble feels
exhausting. It's amazing how quickly the energy can shift from
I'm-so-grateful-I-don't-have-to-do-anything to
I'm-drowning-in-a-pool-of-nothingness. I guess maybe it'll be a relief
to change the scenery.

I rearrange the items in my van for take-off, and zip into town. We go
for a walk at long lake, which I've taken to calling a pretend forest,
because it's been so well trodden and artificially rearranged that you
never quite feel like it's real nature. Still, for a city dweller
without a car it's an acceptable escape from the concrete jungle. It's
nice to see old friends, at first, but I realise that you can't distract
yourself forever. Sometimes you need to go inwards and examine the cold
that lurks within.

As I sit in my van, cold, alone, displaced, I focus on an intention that
I had said. I want to feel at home in the world, no matter where I am.
There's a tendency to gravitate towards houses, and power, and wifi, but
I want to learn to feel welcome on this earth in all it's circumstances.
I let myself be cold, and I noticed the vibrating sensation in my hands.
I practice slower breathing. I accept that what we perceive as painful
can be pleasant in a different light. I practice welcoming the cold. Not
forever, but in this moment, it is a guest in my van.

More challenging is the feeling of being in between. I have no power,
nor connection. I am all alone. Out of place. Not welcomed by the humans
in this space. I could drive the half hour to a safe haven where I can
heat my van and spread my wings a little, but I want to feel at home in
my own skin. I look out my window, and acknowledge grandfather sun, even
though the clouds are hiding him from view. When did I learn that I do
not belong here? Who fed me all these horrid lies?

I think of the past eight years, all the ways I was exiled from homes,
adopted families, all the places where I was now forbidden;
constellations rearranging like a lava-lamp, glooped together until
suddenly bam! you're floating on your own, a victim of a drama that you
didn't have the foresight to escape. I think of growing up, the times
when I got stuck somewhere I couldn't sleep because the transit wasn't
running and I didn't have the sense to break the piggy bank to taxi home
where it was safe and warm.

I think of future-me. I'm always looking out for future-me. I remember
how it hurt to sleep in cold or loud or rough or bright. I do not wish
that upon any me, so I prepare and plan ahead and go to lengths to not
get stuck in corners I can't stand. A princess, I become, who fears the
turgid languish of discomforts known.

My whole life I've cared for future-me; saved every dollar, thought
through every move, I flowed like water when I was welcome and turned to
ice when not. But these past few years, I've been learning about
present-me. How to live the moment, how to savour life, not to run for
fear that I cant handle it, but to face it trusting that I can. I
realised that it's hard to hear yourself if you're always drowned out by
the crowd. It's hard to soothe yourself if you can't see why you're
crying.

I wake up in the middle of a snow storm and I thank my lucky stars that
I have power and a van. There's a good chance I won't leave my cocoon
today; they stay the storm will last 3 days. I'm grateful i can stretch
my legs in here.

Last night the weather dropped so low that all the liquids in my van
became ice, and my poor little thousand watt heater couldn't keep up
with all the heat demands, so I resorted to boiling and reboiling my hot
water bottle, which was a life saver after I finally managed to defrost
it with substantial donations for my precious body heat. Maybe it was
the cold, or the moon, but I found myself awake in the early hours of
the morning in a warm but ultimately doomed conversation with an
internet stranger which took a turn for the uncomfortable when the topic
of vaccines reared it's unfortunate head.

I found myself with an impossible problem that I barely cared to
resolve, but decided to take it as a teachable moment for myself. It was
a chance to integrate everything I'd been learning about myself. The
urge to explain myself was strong, but the intimacy and vulnerability
was lacking. The hard-to-swallow pill was that at best I was gonna leave
this conversation with a stranger thinking I'm an asshole, and at worst,
I was gonna gaslight mightself into thinking that maybe I really am one.

I faced problems like this constantly over the past seven years and I
never did figure out how to navigate them. For a while I really got
myself believing that I was the problem, but turns out this is very
common, one might even say the quintessential challenge of our
generation.

Living in a post truth world, where the schism of consensus, or lack
thereof, is literally thrusting us into incongruent parallel realities
where the notion of "truth" is obliterated, nay, eviserated, into
oblivion, invariably leads us to a myriad of unsolvable conflicts as
life crosses our paths despite the fact that we have no shared reality
to make sense of the crossing. It used to be that we had failures of
communication, misunderstandings rooted in the inherent limitations of
language and communication, but now we're dealing with the nonexistance
of a shared reality, where communication is futile. What's the point of
talking when you don't believe in ears for hearing.

And of course it's not true. We do have a shared reality. We sense it
with our body. With our spirit. We feel it in the in-between. But you
have to listen quietly and attentively to hear what's going on, a feat
that's near impossible in the din of thoughts and fears that floods our
mind and the noise pollution of a mass communication that's always
saying more and meaning nothing.

More and more I'm learning to step back. Some people's role is to fight.
Some people's role is to cook. Spirit said to me: my ilk and I are
medics on a battlefield at the end of time, where there'll be no
survivors. I'm not here to save lives, just to treat the wounds, and
make the pain more bearable. Heck, there's even joy and laughterto be
had, the best of medicines for the jaded soul.

Stay in your lane, that's become a motto of mine. Not everyone is here
to know me. Sometimes you just gotta hit the brakes and let them
overtake. We'll probably see them at the traffic lights. When the snow
storm hits and you can't see the dividing lines, you gotta get off the
road, pull over, have a power nap. Keep the hazards on and heat up high.

I've been drinking oat milk made of misty mountain water. Just two
ingredients. Tastes pure, and simple. Makes me wish more food was like
that, nostaligic for a time I never saw nor heard about. I tell you,
life is better when you can count the ingredients on the palm of one
hand. Chopping firewood up north taught me that. No messy breakups full
of tangled traumas and complex interlocking problems that you can't
resolve. No problem politics full of shifting spiderwebs of treachery
and treason committed by well intentioned comrades who you once called
friends. No back-to-bite-you-in-the-ass white lies you accidentally feed
yourself while wrestling with identity crises, struggling to belong,
like squeezing star shaped cookies in a square shaped hole, you might
get some parts in but at what cost, the tips all circumcised and
mangled, no no, I'd rather be a solo star, yes sir, turns out all the
puzzle pieces fit eventually, sometimes you just have to wait a little
till the conveyor belt comes round again with the missing pieces that
you thought you'd lost, but nay, they always spiral back in time, just
when you least expect it.

I enjoy feeling like a writer, spouting words that wax poetic. Makes me
feel like I have something to say, even if it is just me that hears them
floating in my head. The motto's new to me, but "play\[ing\] for an
audience of one" is really hitting home these days. Commune with spirit,
sing to god. It's a kinder, more resilient reality to choose. The more I
choose it, the less I'm stuck in needing things I can't accept and
wanting things that I can't stomach.

I wake up the pitter-patter of rain on my cold steel roof, and a howling
wind that threatens to lift my van into the air. The weekly storms have
grown

I'm walking around a grocery store, on the verge of having a little
breakdown. I couldn't quite tell you why exactly, but I suddenly feel
displaced. I feel the shadow of future-me's hunger looming over me as I
glare at my grocery cart which is once again lacking substance. I don't
remember when feeding myself became a difficult task, but it's become a
challenge that seems to get harder every week, to the point where I
caught myself eating a box of cookies as meal replacement.

There's a part of me that wants to cry. To fall apart. To sprawl out in
the middle of the isle and come undone. To give up holding it all
in/together. A child inside me, I rebel against the frequency with which
our worlds decide to fall apart. I will not be like caterpillar, doomed
to make cocoon after cocoon, always bursting, never butterflying, caught
in endless cyclic spiral growth.

But I have learned to soothe the child, to trust the process, to know:
"it ends". I think about how lucky I have been to have a spiritual
framework that allows me to go inwards to ask for help. I remember times
in my life I didn't have that, and how immense the feeling of
helplessness and despair, as it sits on your chest and suffocates you. I
ask my ancestors for help. I acknowledge all the work they did,
themselves, all the doorways they opened so that we could be here, now.
I am a pressure cooker, except now I've got the habit to release,
release, release, until eventually I settle down. I feel resilient.

I call my parents, wondering what they might say. They often help, in
ways I least expect. Today the help comes in the form of a 5 year old
niece that I am meeting for the first time, spitting image of my
brother, finally stars aligned for us to face each other's face. I
didn't know how much I cared. I guess with family it's strange, it hit's
your from a deeper place.

My mom parades her like she did with me, "smile for the camera. Play him
another song" and I only barely hold my tongue. I'm old enough to
celebrate my mom in all her mom-ness, to let the triggers slide. I
wonder what kinda parent/uncle I will be. Someday. For now I revel in
the thought of family. Never felt like much when I was there. But now I
see it. The seeds have sprout. The garden's blooming. I hope that I can
take my place in line, and plug the gaps that have been always leaking.
.

My power cuts out in the night. I wake up slightly freezing. Body's warm
enough, but I keep trying to hide my head in blankets. Alas, I too must
breathe. My friend Melissa says "come over", so I drive to town. The sun
is shining and I'm singing songs, halfway caught between "oh yay!" and
"I'm dying". As I park my van I feel familiar, like somehow I've been
here before. She lets me in, all full of sunshine, her life has changed
dramatically it seems. She tells me stories of her journey, a thrilling
podcast of her woes. I'm grateful for this long term friendship. I'm
grateful for things she knows. I'm looking 'round and gosh, I HAVE been
here before! That I time I met that almost-stranger and we romped around
and ate the sea. Her cats and I touched foreheads deeply, and I wonder
where the hell is she?

Homeless. Turns out she's homeless. Can't say I'm surprised. It's seems
the water keeps on rising, and not just metaphorically. Another comrade,
slowly sinking, buried in the ocean floor. I can't imagine how my
friends survive here. Burning out to make ends meet, except in truth,
the fabrics stretching, always threatening to burst. I thank my lucky
stars for Bluejay, and I make a prayer for those without.

I'm at the library here, typing, sunlight streaming on my face. I guess
the fifth floor view is sightly, but it feels a touch austere. I wish
that I could breathe more freely, or drink my water without scorn. I'm
glad they let me charge my laptop, and eat the wifi like it's hot.

I think of stigma, as a concept. There's been a few times in my life
when I have suffered very briefly, but now I'm learning to give thanks.
To accept the lesson. My elder, Mike, survived both aids and cancer. He
tells me stories that will chill your bones, about the cruelty of
humans, and the learnings that it brought. I try my best to learn
through others, grateful not to live their pain. It's wild, the horrors
that we've never thought of, that a person lives by every day.

I see the looks on people's faces. There's a hint of pity, and a touch
of care, but mostly it's this disbelief and fear, with a smearing of
disgust. Patronising, if you let it.

I had a guest tonight. An old friend I hadn't seen in years. She didn't
seem to mind the freezing. We sat and talked for hours in the cold,
remembered, sweetly, bitter things that had been long enough ago to have
been fossilised like golden amber. I felt at ease, free from the
carnivorous thoughts that plagued my yesteryears, once more reminded
that my meagre, messy, mindless home could host a syzygy of souls.

I think how often we forget that we affect our friends profoundly. We
are their doorways, keys for locks. I never knew the paths I opened in
her life until today. We talk of sex and love, abstractly, and what it
feels like in our bones, and why we seek it out, or don't. We find our
breakthroughs, plumb our souls, and soon it's midnight. One final hug
and then we're done, eclipse complete, exchange conducted, we say
goodbye and off I'm driving, chasing warmth for counting sheep.

Today the dumpster gods were smiling on me. Although it's possible that
they were smirking, setting me up to be a slap-stick star. These wafer
thin hardwood flooring planks I found could make a wonderful veneer to
decorate the inside of my van. Or they could lead me down another
urethane disaster like that time I broke my rear door window. I drag
them out and I decide that if there's enough to do my roof, and not one
plank more or less, then I will try roll the dice and try it, otherwise
I'll let them go.

I line them up and sure as hell, exactly fifteen planks to line my roof.
I can't tell if I'm glad or disappointed, but I've made my proverbial
bed, so now I'll lie in it. I remind myself that I can change my mind,
although truth be told I know I probably won't. I think of ways I can
avert disaster, precautions I can take so don't ruin my only living
space. I decide to wait till I can talk to Ralph. He does this for a
living, he'll know how I should do it right. I hope that I can take
whatever great advice he gives me. Although, he'll probably say "don't".

It's funny how we set ourselves up for failure sometimes. There's part
of us that knows what's up, but it's like we never fully learned to hear
it. Or maybe willpower is a chore too tired for our exhausted minds. I
think of love and romance, the infatuation with another's soul, so often
destined for disaster, and there's a part of you that knows. But the
spell, like an addiction, is quite a challenge to resist. After all,
what do we live for?

I see myself in line for tickets to this rollercoaster, love. I grant
myself the gift of patience, I'll take my time to feel it out. My body
warns me, watch out, danger. I'll try to take its good advice. The
vortex sucks, enchanted stranger, but I've got roots to get me out. I
wonder why, why do we risk it? Why do we leave this hallowed ground? Why
do we plunge ourselves in darkness? What are we hoping to find out?

I cannot sleep, yet cannot bear to wake. I watch myself procrastinate
the day. I'm technically alive, but every fibre of my being screams at
me to die. Not that I'm tired, but the atmospheric pressure crushing
down on me from every side says "wait". I tried to stand, but pounding
heart tripped autopilot's "Nope" and threw me back in bed.

I think of things I "should" be doing, a leftover relic from another
time. I see the small incremental changes that could liberate my mind.
The ceremony chores await my prayerful hands. The roll of velcro that I
bought to strap things down so I could drive more freely stares me down,
reminding me how close I am to freedom, yet the months have passed and I
have yet to peel its plastic trappings to reveal the glue.

I sleep a second season, filled with dreams and eerie symbols. I wake up
in a fog, I walk around, it feels like Scotland, I half expect a hamlet
ghost to prophesy my future. I work my axe, preparing kindling; shovel
snow, and smash the ice. I dig out channels, like a child playing in the
sand, so the flooded waters can river their way to freedom and reveal
the symbols hidden underneath. I thank the stars, the sun, the moon, I
know we'll ceremony soon.

I wake up next to a warm stranger who I may as well have known for
years. A cuddle monkey of the highest order. I savour her embrace,
relieved that I can feel at ease, and shocked that I can still enjoy
this. I didn't realise I was once more ready for that human touch. My
last relationship had smothered me so deeply that I thought I'd never
want to hold my breath again, but as with all things human, time can
heal the strangest wounds. I let the hours roll by gently, pretzelled
tightly in her grasp.

The birds are singing, sweetly. February's cold can't get them down. I
bless the wind, and overhear the passing strangers. I finally found a
street where I can park at ease. The tree are old, and big, and form an
archway, as if welcoming me to join in the parade. It's nice to visit
houses daily, but living with the outside world just there is somehow
more alive and vibrant.

I've been adopted as a pet in a beautiful bohemian paradise. The ten
foot wide windows frame a fairytale snowstorm for our leisurely viewing,
and a cuddle monkey periodically latches on to me for a tender squeeze,
and I'm not sure how I got here, nor when I'll leave, but as we watch
the beginnings of world war three unfold through the black mirrors in
our hands, I notice how peacefully removed I am from all the tragedy the
world is living through.

I sip my potable tap water, reclining in a rocking chair that may as
well be a cloud, and I try to savour the sweet taste of freedom. I send
my love to all the past-me's who went through hell to get me here. I
feel the peace, and what it cost me, I thank the stars it's in the past.

I feel the closing of a chapter. It's strange how symbols mark the way.
A nudge from Ralph, and I hear it calling: my pipe is ready to be made.
I feel my ancestors surround me. I pick my tools up off the shelf. I
make the prayers, I smudge, I feel it, this transformation is complete.
I see my parents and what they gave me, I see the work that we've all
done. I feel the wholeness that I've yearned for. I am prepared to face
the world.

I sit and carve and talk with Chelsea, and there's a magic in the air.
It takes some tweaking for the parts to come together, and there's still
many lessons here for me to learn. We talk of spirit, how to find your
path. I think of how much patience brought me here, and how much more is
yet to come. I think of all the ways I had to forge a path because I
could not hear the wisdom of the ones before me, and perhaps it's true
that those were not the paths for me. I watch myself once more employ
some makeshift tools for carving while the right ones lie buried
somewhere in my van. It's who I am, it's part of how I hear myself.

I've learned to laugh when most would cry. In death, and breakups, and
getting lost.

At last, it's time to wake the spaceship, to travel to the world of
prayers.

I catch myself vortex hopping. Shayne hosts a bohemian brunch replete
with fancy cutlery and sweet champagne. The music pours out like a jolly
sailor, and I could imagine being here all day, were it not for people's
"plans" which inevitably tear a hole in the fabric of the vortex,
setting us loose, or free, depending on how you choose to look at it in
the moment, and normally I'd be free falling here, but I quickly find
myself enmeshed in Erin's house where the comfy couch and social
potentiality, which is already through the roof with just us two, is
multiplied by the presence of another weary soul seeking comfort from
the horrors of the world we live in. The day and night unfold in stages,
and eventually it's time for sleep so I set off into the void, and lo
and behold, vortex number three takes form as I immerse myself in my new
lover's arms. There goes another day paradise. The vortextual frequency
is increasing, and I have the freedom to jump in.

I notice life repeat itself, but something's changed. Each revolution
'round the spiral brings with it a sweater scented snowfall, but I
notice, for the first time, the distinct absence of doubt, fear, and the
putrid stench of future mistakes just waiting to be made. It seems that
I've reached a terminal velocity sufficient to eject me from the
wretched orbit of my former life, the broken record skipped enough to
start me on another journey, what lies ahead unknown, event horizons
smiling sweetly hint at future galaxies where I might find a home,
surround with love and warmth and happy endings, peacefully travels, and
kind souls.

There's a certain joy in seeing seedlings sprouting, especially the one
you thought weren't gonna make it. For years I'd laboured, tending
gardens that were destined to be torched. I spent the past twelve months
farewelling all my loves, thinking they were surely done for, but fields
of ash and snow that's melting make a fertile ground for something new,
and now I see their little seedling heads penetrate the soil's surface,
reaching for the sun, and here I am to hold them in my arms and smile on
them.

For years I longed to share my passions with the world, to find my place
amongst my fellow spirit travellers, to host the spaces where our souls
could meet, and journey into the great beyond, but the stars had not
aligned, and countless cliffs denied me passage, until now. Now the
people come to me, remembering the seeds I planted, grateful for my
catalytic nature, it's an honour to join hands with them, to make our
meagre humble prayers.

I wake up in a parallel universe, feeling out of sync with the world
around me. I'm full of life when I should be sleeping, I need to go
soon, but I'm slowly staying. The cats need feeding, but I don't know
where the food lives. A younger me would be in distress, but I've been
surfing the waves long enough now to know that it's not just me that's
feeling this, and that soon enough the doorways back will open up and
let me in again.

The water freezes in my van. Each night my water bottle turns to ice and
I defrost it slowly, first with my breath, then drop by drop the kettle
helps.

Overnight, spring has come. The snowy cliffs form turgid rivers
streaming down the land revealing tufts of healthy looking grass beneath
the sheets of ice that patiently await their turn to melt and wander off
to greener pastures. It's a wonder how beneath the frozen flesh of
winter's frost the heart keeps beating and new life is ready to return
and thrive again. We are so much like Mother Earth, a microcosm of our
own. I yearn to blossom come my spring and share my luscious flowers
with birds and bees. I see my buds appearing on my stalk and I intend to
take good care of this time. I pray for help to be the me I know I am.

I wander to the shoreline where the local lake rivers into ocean,
roaring, foaming, psychedelic patterns in the mix. I stand on crackling
sheets of ice and wonder how the spring that's underground has so much
water that it runs all winter long.

The air is thick with something that the naked eye can feel but cannot
see. My soul is nauseous and I couldn't tell you why. Something is
misaligned, and I can't hear myself enough to make the changes needed to
regain my footing and maintain the balance that I've become accustomed
to these days. It's getting cold again and I should probably be driving
home to warmth and electricity, but I'm not ready yet, and so I stop for
groceries to buy some time for my internal compass to reset

I'm waiting for the bathroom key and overhear a stranger trying to
explain that they deliver food, and have some cancelled orders that they
wish they could donate to somebody in need. they're sick of feeding
trash cans, and they've eaten all they can. I interject, and score
myself a dinner fit for two, and tell them of the people's park, where
donations would be well received.

I visit Chelsea, laying on their hardwood floors, a symphony surrounds
my ears and grounding vibes trickle slowly up my spinal chord. It's nice
to have such friends where you can pop-in even when you're down, and
just be not alone together while the moments pass.

Eventually I pull the plug and make the drive out prospect way where I
can feel at ease in ways I can't explain. I don't know why, but knowing
that this spot is mine, for me to be, not in-between, makes all the
difference and I thank my stars. My brakes aren't working well and a
headlight's out, and I feel grateful that there's no other cars to share
the road with as I hobble home to suck my thumb and rest my head and
pray for clarity to come.

I've spent so long alone I've half forgotten all the challenges that
come when intertwined with lovers or the like. You have to learn to hear
the world through extra ears and eyes and blood, and all the rhythms of
another human that you've opened up your cells to, pulse and ripple
through your body, sometimes amplifying messages and other times
inverted phase can cancel out your inner voice so that it's hard to hear
yourself over the static din of background noise that's white and blue.

I remember what it feels like to be triggered, all the echoes of a
darker time. It's like I have a second body sending feelings up my
spine, except it's not mine anymore, it doesn't feel familiar, nor
nostalgic, and I don't identify with it. But I feel it all the same. And
it hurts. Like an extra limb that you can't remove. If I could I would
chew through bone to set it free, but time is the only medicine I've
got, and anaesthetic's not allowed.

I wonder what is different this time 'round. How will I avert disaster?
I trust that life will give me what I need, the but the way ahead is
murky, and the night is long. I notice the distinct absence of my old
friend "panic", which is probably a good sign, although the mounting
beast "exhaustion" makes me wonder if I'll even make the race. My days
of marathoning torture are behind me and I'm ready to abandon ship if I
see the water level rising faster than I can scoop or swallow.

I wish I had some role models, or someone I could ask for help. I can't
be always bleeding edge researching, watching casualties pile up,
burning through relationships like matches in the cold, all getting lit
and blowing out before the tinder catches light. I refuse to take
another down with me. I must seek help. I must.

And then it hits me, that I now live in a world where all my ancestors
are with me. There is help beyond the veil, and all I have to do is ask.
And so I crawl into a lodge, and make the prayers how I've been taught,
and watch the purges rise within me, getting ready to let go. It's
neither quick, nor is it easy, but I know I'm not alone, and I trust
that I will make it, and I will not burn the forest down.

The winds of change have been blowing for three days straight. It\'s
hard to believe that there\'s anything left to change, but still the
storms rage on. I close my eyes and wander onwards, leaning on blind
faith and miracles.

Ralph pours a healing lodge today. We\'re all half broken lately and
could use some help. Tears fill my eyes the minute I sit down beside
him, and the bitter brew boils up and overflows. I hear myself, I\'m
crying, \"I don\'t want to hurt no more\" and I hope that this means
maybe I can fin\'lly let it go. I don\'t know what I\'m holding onto
anymore. My brain has moved along, but my body says \"there\'s more\".

I wake up parked in a metered zone with the timer running out. Last
night, too tired to drive home, I spent the night outside my buddy
Erin's place, where hoards of power chords allowed me to plug in and
access heat from on the street and it was glorious to feel like there's
a place for me here too. Except that now it's morning and the parking
rules apply, I'm quagmired in this limbo, and a small defeatist part of
me is wishing I could die.

Alas, this part, I know him well. Exhausted, weathered, deep inside.
When tiny problems feel like ends of worlds. The sweet relief of giving
up, it helps sometimes. Release the tension, cease to care. Clear out
the build-up of the world's despair. I tend to soldier on when maybe
rest could help. But not today. Today I take the steps to soothe myself,
the mother in me holds the child, and strokes his hair and dries his
nose. She whispers sweetly in his ear "it's all ok. You're doing fine.
You'll find solutions in good time."

I place a toilet seat on the bucket in the shipping container next to
where I park my van. I've got no symptoms yet, but my lover's sick, and
it's only a matter of time. Covid finally touching on my life for real.
Three days I sit there waiting, isolating just in case. I've always
loved my van, I never thought I'd lose my mind in here. Day four I start
to feel a tickle in my chest. It could be nothing, but I lay down
anyway, just in case. And then it comes for me.

I can only describe it as a spirit entering my body, and flipping the
override switch. It spreads in waves across my whole body, and now I
have two bodies in the place of one. I'm sensitive to light, and sound,
and any attempts to move threaten me with piercing headaches which I
narrowly avoid. All I can do is pray. I stay calm, and I invite the
spirit of covid into my life, I pray for help to work with it in a good
way, with love and respect. And it starts to talk to me.

It's here to help with major clearings. The first two days are triage,
and I handle them with grace and focus. But then the surgery begins, and
the corners of my mind begin to fray. We visit every trauma that's been
buried deep inside, and I keep praying hard as covid rips and tears away
the fabrics of my world, and all the crazy triggers that are lurking in
my bones begin to rise a swell and burn and I can't take it any more,
but there are several days ahead of me where I don't have a choice, and
so I lose my mind inside a metal box, exquisite torture of my own
creation.

There's water dripping in my van. Just a few drops here and there.
Condensation probably. I can't decide if it's foreshadowing disaster, or
if it's something I should learn to live with. Either way I probably
won't have the fortitude to try to fix it, so not much of a choice here.
I might be ready for a change soon.

For several days now I've been laying on the earth. There's no better
way to spend your waking hours when your spirit's undergoing surgery,
when the thought of being well seems so distant now that you start to
wonder if you ever were, or if it was just a story you made up to pass
the hours while you waited for the doctor to arrive. They told me I
looked sun-kissed, as if it were a symbol of my radiance, a glow, if
only they knew what tortures I endured to get me here.

I've started feeling nauseous in my van, like I can't breathe. I'm
praying that it's just a kick-in-the-bum I need to get me out and about
and smelling roses, even though they haven't bloomed nor do they plan on
doing so for months to come. I walk the micro-woods behind Ralph's
house, I'm there and back in less than ten, but every time I go I find a
new relief, though sometimes I imagine jumping off the cliff, and in my
vision I am smiling, knowing soon I will be free.

I found a dimple in the ground, reminded me of an overgrown grave hole.
I lay in it, it's just my size, an oddly comforting arrangement. I fold
my arms across my chest and close my eyes and feel my feelings. I make a
note of coming back here, I thank the earth for holding me.

I draw a line across the page, and at one end I write a zero, on the
other end eleven. A scale of wellness, out of ten, to help me tell my
friends my status. At four I'm struggling, at six, content. At two I'm
drowning, at eight, life's great. At one my soul has left my body. At
zero, well, let's not go there now. I make a list of strategies for
helping me, the first responses, triage, and long-term. At different
points, the needs are different. I ponder, how does one support me when
I'm well?

I find myself driving down the south shore way to Chester late one
sunday night. My friend Jackie\'s been inviting me and I keep putting it
off, waiting for the right time, but I figure I\'ve been rotting here
for long enough it might be time to turn the compost pile and let some
fresh air circulate.

The first time I came here it was also late at night, and my dear friend
google maps decided to play a joke on me, making up fake highway exits,
and multiple locations for the same address. I spent an hour driving
round, and eventually decided i should listen inwards, so I found a hill
and parked to sleep. In the morning Jackie\'s family drive up and honk,
\"are you Ross? We heard about your whacky van!\" Apparently her cabin
was just minute down an old dirt road.

Eagles

Owl

I wake up cold but grounded, ready for an unknown day. I make a
breakfast, read a book, I walk the forest briefly. I try imagine what
it\'s like to live here. The nature\'s lush, and there\'s no wifi, the
sound of traffic\'s closer than you\'d think. I\'m always processing
more trauma, at least that\'s how it seems these days. Maybe here would
help me, though I know it doesn\'t matter where you go, the work\'s the
work.

The sun is leaking through the clouds now, and I hear the call of the
canoe. I\'d had the thought that maybe I should upstream first, but it
wasn\'t right so I let the water take me where it wants. The water is a
healer, it\'ll show me what I need. Eventually it took me to a 10 foot
island with a sandy beach where I lay my head and soaked in sun, went
inside to try to clean my goo. It wasn\'t fun, but it was nice to get a
little warm. And suddenly it\'s time to go, so I push off and head on
back

I\'m in the middle of a raging river, trying to paddle my canoe. The
wind keeps twisting us and throwing us against the banks. A metaphor for
what\'s inside me. Do I let the river run its course and wash me out to
ocean? Or do I force my will and paddle harder? Already, I had just
about capsized, an inch of water lined the bottom of boat, and now low
hanging branches playing schoolyard bully flicked my warming winter hat
right off my head, and I now desperately am fishing with a paddle trying
to save my good old friend

Eventually I reach my starting point and pull myself back onto land.
Jackie\'s here! She\'s supposed to be at work, but seems like fate has
put her here to help my journey. She\'s gone as fast as she arrived, but
in those minutes she called Carla and now my day has sorta plans. Is
this a good thing? Im not sure, but there\'s relief in never having to
decide.

I\'m oiling tipi poles with linseed oil to weather proof them from the
rain. I\'m going inwards, making prayers, trying to dissect my life.
This afternoon I had walked with Carla on her magic sacred land and she
had asked me what my needs are. What my needs are? I cry and cry and how
am I to know? I know someday I\'d like to stay here, be an uncle, work
the land. I try to feel it out, is now the time? Or maybe later? I
really don\'t know what I need.

I walk the gorgeous old growth forest. I navigate the tiny trails. I
find some moss, a tree that holds me, and I lay there in a trance. I
feel a child. I am child. I want a child. I can\'t make sense of
anything. I feel that I am not alone here, and I\'m grateful not to be.
I\'m searching for a home still, and it may yet be a while before I\'m
there.

I\'ve spent five days without the wifis and now I look at how I filled
my time. I sat with friends in homes and forests, in the river on a
boat. I used my hands to carve and clean.

A sack of poison acid exploded in my belly. It doesn\'t matter what she
did or said or how I got here. Not the time for making sense. It spreads
out to my fingertips and up my neck, and to my knees. I know that if it
hits my head I can\'t control the things I say or do, but I\'ve had
practice. All my training was preparing me for times like these. It
burns like holy water melting vampires but in reverse. It\'s hard to
breathe, it\'s hard to move, it lasts seemingly forever. But I have been
like this before, and I refuse to recreate old nightmares, so I close my
eyes and pray.

It seems like everything these days is pray pray pray. Acknowledge all
the things that sit in all directions, give my thanks, and ask for help.
My strongest tool for fighting demons, which are haunting me no end.
It\'s three am and it\'s been hours, try\'na find my inner peace, but
there\'s something in me moving, and I\'m not resting till it\'s out. I
sing the songs, I call on spirits, parked on inner city street. I\'m
feeling desperate, but I know I\'ll make it, just not clear on how or
why.

I see clouded curses, coursing curtly through my lines, wreaking havoc
on the ones I love, and loved, and lost, I\'m lost, I find a curse that
I myself had cast, and everything is swirling, and it\'s got to go, so I
demand this curse to be undone, and forgive myself and all involved, and
just like that I start to purge, and this goes on for several days.

The acid\'s dulled down all my senses, but the burning still goes on. I
try to clear it but the job is endless, you\'ve gotta love it till it
stops, and it needs time, and it needs precision, because god help you
if you miss a single drop. It comes through in the ways you talk to
people, and what happens in your mind. I refuse to take it out on
others. I refuse to be unkind.

I have a maybe place to stay and park my van and plug in power and some
wifi if I need. It\'s not quite home, but it surely could be. It reminds
me of visiting my grandparents house, although Carla and Dave are my
parents age. I feel a calling to look after them, to support them in
their lives. They do so much, and with the world being what it is today,
we need to support the good people holding down the fort of old ways. I
see how much it hurts them when they see my generation cannibalising
itself. We've lost the values. We've lost the will to live and work.
It's become exceptionally hard to care. I ask David why he works so hard
in that toxic world when nobody seems to care or appreciate it, and I
think I may have broke his heart.

So I guess I blinked and it looks like I\'m a farmer now. My body aches
after a long day of physical labour, though to be honest, with all the
breaks I was taking it was probably only four or five hours of actual
exertion. but it sure felt like a full day\'s work. It's hard to find
the motivation to keep going, but I had an excellent coach, egging me
onwards. Digging in the ground we kept on digging up important
conversations about love, and trust, and the future generations.

We're stacking wood one night, into perfect twelve foot piles, David's
quizzing me on grade-school math, "how many rows to make a cord?" and we
get to talking about useful skills, and ends of world, and who you'd let
and would not let into your end-of-times bunker, and I guess it's not a
topic I had broached in recent years and it smacks me in the face. I see
it clearly, it's already end of times. We're in the bunkers. Who have I
been filtering from mine? How will I support the people in my life?

I guess it's probably about time I talked about Sophia. No not that one,
the other one. The one that's been living on Erin's couch the past few
months. I guess she come to be quite special in my life, and without her
very little of the next few months makes sense. Unfortunately, I can't
tell you much about her. She wouldn't like that. So I'll try my best to
tell my stories, but no guarantees that they'll make any sense

Sophia fell into a my life a drooping mess, which obviously I can't say
a word about. We saw each other maybe twice, just long enough to know
we'd be important on each other's paths, before the vibe became
adversarial, and dark, which I took to be a sign that it was time to
take my leave. I guess because of this I didn't see Erin for a month or
two. But then she lost her job. And some other stuff happened. And
eventually Sophia and I made peace, if somewhat tenuously.

And so when Erin flew across the country, gone for several weeks to buy
a car and road trip back with Freya who I'd heard so much about,
shenanigans began to rear their trickster heads. I found myself in
multi-day vortices constructed like a cryptic crossword in a foreign
tongue, deciphering mixed messages that seemed to stem from her
distrust, and who could blame her, I'm a whacky weirdo bowling down the
off vibes.

Shifting shapes, we fell into a push-pull dance, oscillating from "yes
please" to "hell no" fast enough to make my head spin, but I guess it
felt important, and I must've caught a glimpse beyond her thick facade,
because I hung around her long enough for all these openings to
flourish, and eventually we woke up in a universe that I'd forgotten
could exist.

I've become obsessed with the concept of non-ordinary reality, a kind of
magical lens through which to experience the world that lies somewhere
between a sober hallucinagenic journey and a chain of synchrostic
psychic experiences. I encountered the term when I suddenly found myself
at a shamanic drumming ceremony, headed on a journey to the lower world,
and it's become an invaluable tool in solving impossible problems. Much
like imaginary numbers, non ordinary reality allows you to take certain
inputs, play around with them a little, and come back with solutions
that seem to materialize out of thin air.

Sophia was an impossible problem. She both repulsed me and attracted me.
I couldn't make heads or tails of it, until I realised that her coming
had been signposted to me by none other than my good friend Juniper.
Last year I spent a small lifetime in the woods, cultivating a
relationship with the mighty Juniper, who told me many things. They told
me that sometimes the grass really IS greener on the other side. They
told me of my love for music and the songs that I should sing. They told
me not to fear my past, that I could walk that path with ease. And they
told me of a love, one that would alternate between sweet smelling and
repulsion.

We knew at once that there was something big between us, and when she
finally stopped brandishing her ten foot pole and asked for help, I woke
up in a dream where I could walk the golden path, each step unfolding as
you step in faith. I had been searching for this path so long that I'd
forgotten, but this time I was prepared, I had been chopping wood, and
carrying water, and I could trust myself to stay the course. Each time
that we butt heads or poked a bear it felt divinely guided and I
navigated all the trappings with a grace and ease that felt so pure and
clean that all my people started telling me that I looked different, in
a good way, like my eyes were crystal clear, and my spirit light and
fluffy.

I think the breakthrough moment came in talks of prayer, when dubiously
she asked me "can you demonstrate?" and so I closed my eyes and called
upon the spirits, just like I'd been taught, except this time they came
and sat with us, encircling us both, an impenetrable circle of
protection, and suddenly I knew things that I didn't know before. I
cannot tell you what they were, but I reckon she must've caught a
glimpse of something because from that moment on, the thread was crystal
clear no matter how much dirt she tried to bury it with.

The road to ceremony is full of tests and trappings, almost as if to
test how much you're really willing to commit to getting there. Driving
up to Jane's it seemed almost a farce that we had come this far.

In two-steps-forward-one-step-backs we slowly opened up the clam shell,
peeling layers that we didn't know were there, revealing iridescent
pearls while butting heads with sturdy horns, and making it to see
another day. So much of how we spent our time became non-ordinary,
sudden knowings, psychic visions.

Today we made a map. For several years I've been obsessed with mapping
complex information, trying to see the pieces in my brain laid out in
front of me in one big cloud that I can rotate with my hands, and see it
all at once, but now I've found the missing piece. I've become a
non-ordinary cartographer. In ordinary reality, a map is a one-to-one
facsimile of data to a page. In non-ordinary reality, a map is a living
being that evolves and helps you navigate itself. You start with a
guiding question, and then you follow threads, and as you focus on your
intention, the map reveals itself to you. It brings you teaching that
you didn't know you sought.

There's a thing with trios. They keep forming in my life, and they are
deeply potent, I can feel it in my bones. There are moments that feel
poised to blow open all the gateways to the places we must go. And yet
trios always seem to have a tragic fate, like somehow balance is elusive
and they crumble into two plus one. There's always someone who seems
frightened by their potency, and someone who's not sure that they
belong, but for the period they're standing, like a tripod they are
strong and tall. I don't think Sophia Erin and I ever reached that
stable point, but it sure felt important.

Sitting in the back of my van and braiding sweetgrass the trio talks of
visions, turning points, and feeling touched by god. The future is
non-ordinary. We've been reading a book out loud, and themes emerging
from the novel seem to match exactly what's been happening in our lives,
like somehow it is punctuating our experiences. There's something waking
up in me, something significant.

My van is looking out for me again. Today, driving in from Chester, we
were mere minutes away from our destination when the transmission became
to falter, and the van refused to leave first gear. We hobbled along
until I managed to reverse into one of the few "all-day" parking spots
that can occasionally be found in halifax, at which point I got out and
watched the last of my transmission fluids leaking from my van. Not to
panic, I said to myself. What a gift my van has given me. I settle in,
because I know it could be days before solutions will present
themselves.

A week has passed, and I have learned a lot. Although I couldn't tell
you what. Erin's gone for three or four days, and I've been playing
house with my pretend-Australian pretend-girlfriend, and it's getting
kinda hazing, hard to tell which part's pretend and which is real. I
guess that's right on brand for me. I'm walking down the street, my
raincoat casts at bm shadow like the grim reaper, and I remember who I
am and what I'm for. I walk you to the doors you choose, I show it how
it really is, and even when the fog is thick, I'm

I\'m fishing my keys out of the Ottawa River, wondering how exactly I
got here. In a moment of frustration she had thrown them out the van
window. I guess we\'ve been sitting under a bridge by this beautiful
river for almost two days now, the last checkpoint before we hit the
ground running, and the thing is, I know that she\'s not gonna make it
she doesn\'t fill her pipe, but she\'s not ready to make that leap, so
here I am stalling for time, and here she is, pressure mounting. I spent
the whole night praying. Help me be a good support, to do this in a good
way. It\'s not our way to push somebody into prayers, but this is how
it\'s coming out, and all that I can do is trust.

Last week Ralph told me that they\'re putting up the lodge at Julie\'s,
fourteen hour drive away, and maybe I should go and help. I\'d have to
leave tomorrow night. I don't have a ride, and my van's still broken,
but Carla had been mentioning this weeks ago, and I somehow get the vibe
that the universe is going to conspire to get me there. I can see the
puzzle pieces start assembling. Sophia's from around there, and she had
asked me to take her to see Bear, and Bear will be there.

The next day Erin needs to get her car inspected for a safety
certificate, and I go with her, and I'm chatting with Bruno, and he says
he saw my van. I'd called at the very start and asked him if he'd come
to me and he refused, but now, two weeks later he says he'll drop by
that afternoon. Two hours and a couple of rusty pipes later and old
bluejay's operational. Puzzle pieces lining up. Bear sends me a
messaging confirming that he'll be there. Puzzle pieces lining up.
Sophia says "I think we should go". Puzzle pieces lining up. Except
there's something off. I see an anger. She doesn't trust me like she
should. This trip is sacred, and there's danger, I cannot risk my life
with her.

We talk for hours, with Erin witness, and I'm not sure what good will
come. She's full of anger that she can't express. She can't forgive me
for some things that make no sense. I don't know how but something
opens, and I feel it's time to go. No logic would dictate we leave now,
but I'm non-ordinary, so I just have to trust. Nine thirty, if we leave
right now and drive all night, we'll maybe make it just in time. She's
certain that it's right to go. I feel it out, imagine staying, and
there's a dread that fills my heart, and now I feel into us going, and
it feels clear, and so I trust.

An hour in, and she has lost it. Angry, frustrated, god, why. The drive
is brutal by the end. I swear I almost turned around. I can't believe I
drove twelve hours, being tired from the start. There were some moments
when my eyes were closing, and I should have stopped to rest, but
there's no time. Gotta keep on driving. Gotta tow the line.

Z

It's five am, and I'm exhausted and it seems we're out of gas, but we
have to wait for seven for the pumps to open up, so I guess it's time
for napping. A million house flies zoom around us, and it's hot, too hot
to sleep, but eventually I wake up and it's back to driving straight.
When we get there though, I realise, that the house number is wrong.
Google maps took us to the middle of the street. We drive around
knocking on houses, wondering if we'll luck into finding it somehow. But
now I see my tank is empty, so we drive on into town. Alexandria is a
pretty town, we munch on country farm stand strawberries and find some
wifi at the bank. This final hick-up, little breather, now to ceremony
we go.

We arrive by midday-thirty, and they're still digging holes for lodge.
Perfect timing, I can't believe it. It's so nice to see the crew. Bear,
Muluk, and all the children, I'm so lucky they're my friends. Two dozen
other friendly faces, and we're working as a team.

I always seem to think I know things, like, my brain remembers good. I'm
often right, but so not always, and every time we build a lodge I get a
teaching that is new or changing, and it slaps me in the face. Now
there's a guy who's loud and vocal, it's his first time at this lodge.
He's in your face, and missing teaching. If this were Ralph's, I'd speak
with him, but I'm a newbie here as well. I talk to Julie, seek her
council, she tell me "tobacco. Fire. Pray", and don't you know it, soon
enough he's reaching out to be my friend, he is important, and he needs
help. I hope to share my pieces well. The lodge is up, and full of
people, the day is hot, the rocks are big. The children join us, and we
sing the prayers up, and now I think it's time for rest

I first met Alexandra up at bears, she came to help us build his lodge.
I didn't think much of it then, but now it feels important too. I've
never see a lodge be born, a lodgekeeper granted rites. It's an honour
to be a witness, and to help her, it feels right. I feel a closeness I
did not expect, and I see visions in her lodge that give me confidence
in her. Good lodge keeper, she will be. Then there's a feast, and then
it's over. Now we have to figure out what's next.

We\'re driving up to Hawkesbury, the final checkpoint before Pandora\'s
box. We're told there's parking by the river. I had a friend who lived
in this way, they had a barn, and campground, and I only met them once,
at night in winter, but I fancied I could find my way to theirs by
intuition, so here we zigzag in and out of country streets, a gorgeous
sunset paves the way. These quirky micro farm aesthetics make me want to
stop and futz around, but not today. Eventually we park up by the
massive river underneath a six lane bridge. It\'s beautiful here too. I
watch the sun descend and drop like egg yolk into running water, moments
of paradise adorn my life. I could stay here a while.

In the morning we explore the waterfront. There\'s a recycled art
exhibit, and a public washroom that we get to know too well. The thing
is, there\'s a puzzle piece that\'s missing, and we can\'t move on until
it\'s got. Returning home is one path forward, but to be so close and
turn back now, it would be such a damn shame. So I wait. And wait.
Another night goes by, and she's getting cagey. The anger strikes like
lightning, but I\'ve got grounding rods for days. Another morning comes
and goes and by afternoon, she snaps and throws my keys out the window,
and into the river

After things settle, she takes me to a greasy diner, a little breather
from our stalemate. She plays Australian, and we joke through homemade
chips and burgers, buying time, but we\'re just stalling. There\'s not
much I can do but pray, and suddenly I get a sign, it\'s time to go. I
don\'t understand, the piece is still missing, but who am I to question
spirit. On we drive. She's anxious, losing it. We stop on highway,
smudge, and pray. We stop again, this time, a highway fruit stand. What
an oxymoron sign. I watch the eagles, still say forward. But she doesn't
want to go. I get prepared to turn around, we cannot go without her
armour, I cannot leave her to her wolves. At last she takes it, and my
job is finished, onwards, to the lions den.

We arrive in paradise. ittle village with a beach and conservation A
little suburb by the sea, or river technically, with conservation land,
and beach, and quiet. Ancient trees stand guard all over, and ducks and
geese and turkeys wander up to you and feed. I see the way the spirits
love her, like they've known her all her life. They are her
grandmothers, the trees and water, and I see a love I've never known. I
see her smile, and splash in water, and they surround her with their
love. She'll always be their little baby. But she is sad and hurt and
angry too. Something went very very wrong. I don't know when or why or
whether it's just life unfolding true. But I can see the life she
dreamed of, and I can feel the love she's lost.

We see her brother, aunt and uncle, family dinner at their house.
There's so much love in her surroundings. I can't believe she grew up
here. I lament the suburbs that I grew up in, I didn't find much loving
there. Where were the spirits? Where the family? How come I always felt
alone? Where were the neighbours? Where the artists? Why must I forge
this path alone? Why weren't there potluck dinners? Why weren't there
elders in my life? I can't imagine what my life would be like with the
pieces I see here.

We wander round, collecting feathers, each time we walk, there's new
ones here. I see their role, I bless the vision, I offer gratitude and
bow my head. Now there's a turtle, dead, inverted, missing head and arm
or leg. I see the rattle that is coming. I pray for help to make it
right. Now there's a duck stuck in the water, rotting several days at
least. It too lost head and leg, or shoulder. She sets it free and it
floats down rapids, there's something sad that's happened here.

So I guess in a moment of anger she threw a trash can through my window,
and now I'm sitting in a sea of shards of glass, trying to make sense,
how to react. There's something that she can't forgive me for, but she
did not mean to hurt my van, and what's the use in really yelling, or
being angry back to back? And so I cry, and pray, and wonder how to stop
this awful trend. If we were home, then we'd be finished, but I made
commitments to this trip, and in the fog it's hard to reason, so I must
wait for what unfolds.

I wander on my own, exploring, I see a snake, and magic sumac trees. I
dunk my head in raging rapids, I thank the ancestors of here. I stand on
sacred land, as storm clouds gather, and there's a heron come to watch.
Grandfather heron, ho, a gift, I pray for help to do this well. Please
help me know and love you, please help me be a good true friend. Please
help me help her in the best way possible, she who brings me to this
land. I wish that I'd brought more to offer,

In the three act structure there's a low point in act two, where the
hero's been all but defeated, and they're ready to give up, but then one
final hope emerges, pushing them onto the final act where they must face
one last adversity. It's two A.M. and I am awoken by an angry wraith,
thrust into a conversation where there is no win. She packs her bags and
tells me I should leave, and I'm not sure she's going to change her
mind.

I find myself in the middle of a domestic violence situation, an echo of
my past, except all the pieces are rearranged, and nothing makes a whole
lot of sense. I'm walking away, asking for space, and she's following
me, yelling at me to leave, she throws her phone at me, she's
threatening to smash my van, she kicks me with her legs, I get away for
long enough to pray and ask for help, and now I'm standing in the water,
and she's throwing rocks at me, big enough to break a bone, she clips my
jaw, and I collapse and start to cry. There's no more rocks, but still
she's yelling. I've got my prayers protecting me, but physically I'm
still flesh and blood. "Help me to do this in a good way" I pray. "Help
me to be a good support, a good friend".

The fear is not that she will hurt me, but that with her anger will
corrupt me, break me, take away my balance, which is all that's keeping
me together. If I slip and start to fight her, body, mind, or spirit,
then it's all for naught, and I've lost the war. I try my best to hold
the peace, I'm crying in my van with ice pack melting, praying endlessly
until it stops. I swore I'd never put myself through this again, but
somehow this time everything is different. The cuts are shallow, my core
is strong. I hold myself, and promise that it's almost over. I do not
choose a life like this. I will protect the child within. It's not a
nightmare that I cannot end.

I hear from Erin, she's got trouble. She driving up to Montreal to
rescue family in crisis. She's been a missing piece here, but now she
grounds me deep in heart. I get the address and I pledge to go. One more
finale, and we can read the score. Then maybe I will drive to Carberry,
to sundance far across the land. I've never been that far from east
coast with my van and all my gear. Forty hours total driving, but I
guess I'm almost halfway there. I cannot think, there's too much
question. I have to focus on the now. Keep stepping, one foot then
another, the only way that I know how.

I start the van, I turn the corner. One last goodbye before I go. I'm
still not sure if she is coming, but I can't play this game no more. I
see her uncle, gift him feathers, the aunts and children in the bay. I
dunk my head, and cleanse my aura, and she is waiting by the van. The
gauntlet's over, the vortex closing, I won't forget this special place.
we stepped through open doors and windows, maybe too much, but it's hard
to tell, and now we're back on hollow highways, heading east to
Montreal.

We stop near Connor's on the way, she spends some hours with her friend,
alone. This is the first time that I've really had some time for me. I
rest my head, and play some tunes, and pray for patience with myself.
There's been a lot of violence come my way, but I must stay the path of
kindness, and I must clear myself of weight. I see my pipe, it comes
together, my first time praying with this stem. I can't believe how well
it serves me, I can't believe how well it fits. I wait for hours then
it's time to go, so I start driving on my own, and there she is, just
now returning, the timing's magic, and so we go.

We spend the night in Vankleek Hills, it's peaceful there somehow. My
old friend Thaila makes us breakfast, gives us tours of his land. An old
old house, a giant barn, a permaculture garden plot. I've been here once
before, but it was night, and winter, and it looks different in the day.
The barn is like a giant venue, rows of couches and a stage, with twenty
foot open celings, you have to feel it to understand.

He takes us to an empty silo, where the reverb is superb. I start to
whistle, then a song comes and it fills the space with love. I think of
singing in a sacred choir, I feel the power of this work. We step
outside, and there's a heron, circling above us where I sang. It feels
connected, like a guiding sign, reminding me from whence I've come. I
know that it will be okay, despite the rocky patch ahead. I thank the
heron for it's message, and then we're ready to head off.

She's back to anger, seathing, yelling, and I can barely drive the van.
I ask for peace, and she refuses, so I pull off in no-man's land. A
little Maccas by the highway, it has forest behind the lot. I take a
walk and try to breathe it, but I'm shaking and I need help. The prayers
are wavy and I'm not grounded, and I truly don't know what to do. I
can't drive on like this to Erin's, and I can't remove her from my van.
I cannot leave her here to flounder, and I cannot stay here till she's
well. I turn to yoga for my grounding and it helps me stabilize.

Now she is following me to the woods, irate that this is where we are.
She spends an hour or so yelling, while I'm protected by a song. I can't
believe how well it shields me, all the harshness rolls right off. I
wait until she's said her piece and then she's walking off. I run back
to my van and lock myself inside and wait until she's ready to move on.
I don't know how but there's eventually a peace, and now we're driving
back on highway headed to Montreal.

The heat is suffocating as we crawl around like snails riding Montreal's
automotive catacombs, there's firetrucks and accidents delaying
eternally, but then eventually we we find our way and now we're parked
outside the place where Erin's meant to be, the perfect parking spot,
except we don't have wifi and we don't have phones, and so we wait until
she comes downstairs. She brings the cat, and tells us what she needs,
and so we sit for hours in a muggy van awaiting her next move.

We take a trip to bagel land and sit with Erin and her kin, a light
reprieve in times of turgid turmoil. We have some laugh, and sleepy
chat, and the trio breaks away, and now we're riding up the mount to
quiet parking lot for heavy chats. Not one of us knows what to say, but
slowly we begin to open up the wounds that need some dressing. Time and
again we almost lose the plot but then a map unfolds itself and teaches
us about the narcissism fallacy.

Another day in Montreal. It hurts to be inside its city walls. All day
we walk the same four mindless blocks in aimless fashion waiting for the
pieces to align. We find a patch of hallowed ground protected by some
holy bushes. A moments peace, we make some sandwiches and tear a
watermelon into pieces with our bare and hungry hands. A piano in an
alleyway provides a light reprieve. I should have bought that odd
rotisserie chicken when we had the chance at breakfast, now it later and
there's nothing left.

A random bench that we'd walking past all day presents itself, and now
we're sitting, now I'm crying, open heartedly we say goodbye. I have to
much to thank her for. I've never loved like this before. There's still
a day or so before we are to part, but all the feeling surface now to be
released. I'd never left someone I still had feeling for, and here I was
prepared to drive away.

I'm waking up on Houston beach again. It's been 10 days since we first
landed on it's shores, and somehow it's more beautiful than I remember.
Something's changed, but I can't put my finger on it. There's a
heaviness that I've been carrying and somehow in this morning sun I feel
a lightness that I didn't think I'd see again for days.

I blink and it's December. The weather's getting cold enough that if I
can't hook up to power for a night I'm toast. Or so I thought. There's
greater powers messing wit
