
*A "Coming out" in all sorts of ways*

**Chapter One: The Immigrant Story**

-   I come from a long line of immigrants

-   Grandparents surviving the war

-   Parents escaping the Soviet Union

-   English as a second language

-   Jewishness

-   Russian culture. Two brain thinking

-   Becoming a programmer

-   Deciding to write musicals and switching to the arts

-   Coming to Canada

-   Building an Empire

    -   Starting Dramatic Changes

-   Dreams of ecovilliages and tiny house caravan ship

-   Book on Jewish history

-   Siberia roots

-   Floating on an iceberg vision

**Chapter Two: The Queer Story**

-   Dress ups

-   Mum wanted a daughter

-   Singing female parts... Excited to sing alto in choir

-   Being one of the girls

-   Being a man

-   Long hair

-   Alia, being called Samantha

-   Dresses

-   Queer friends

-   Chloe

-   Horror if the inch

-   Pronouns and JL Ilsley

-   Dare arts

-   Ky and binary

-   Queer/Trans community

-   Michelle\'s play about intersex

-   Toronto

-   FDA

**Chapter Three: Relationships**

-   Nuero-diversity

-   Crushes

-   Ashley

-   Loretta

-   Milky

-   Erin

-   Sarah

-   Katie

-   Rebecca

-   Anna

-   Mare

-   Sophia

**Chapter Four: The Spirit Path**

-   A sense of being special

-   Fear of religion

-   Celestine prophecy

-   Jesus complex

-   Wicca

-   Decolonising time

-   Witchy sisterhood

-   Shamanic visions

-   Ayahuasca

-   Lakota ceremonies

-   Sundance visions

-   Hayoka

-   Life doula

**Rehearsal:**

Things that we know:

-   What is this (improvised musical about Ross's life)

-   Why are we doing it (fundraiser)

-   What are some wishes (from Ross and I)

-   r talk about the space

-   Garry plays piano too?

Talk about vision of show (some options) : PLEASE COMMENT IN CHECK IN

-   Do you want to hear all the details of Ross's life now or do you
    > want to hear them the first time at the show

-   Proposing voice recording or pieces of paper

-   One of them be a live dramaturg (would they also direct Ross)?

-   Are they singing? - live dramaturg's role to guide them

-   Mix of solo piano and looping and then mix of actors (Â½ of show)

preference: not knowing

But want some context

Think it\'s a good idea for ross to share bits live too

Whatever shouldnt come out on stage shouldnt come out

**R wishes:**

Musical

Healing music

Live solo piano

All playing versions of ross?

Adrianne- ross should give a sense of who they are by speaking

How would audiences life be different

Play a scene then ross say: actually, that didn't happen that way

Should do inspired by not reenacting:

We need to hear from you in some capacity (voice)

Like the bowl of memories idea- someone should be clear about the fact
that this is an improv scene

-   As the opening (i'm ross. No im ross)

-   Everyone can be ross at different scenes

-   Holistic, community based, want to help others, people need these
    > things in their lives

-   They come out and give their input on what it means to be that kind
    > of person

Needs: Before they go on stage they want to know if it will flow or if
its in blocks

Actors will be the patter between the songs (like cabaret)

Stories that link the journey

How to stop the improv so that it doesn't take over the show

They are comfortable taking his stories

Ross interjects

Every couple years Ross's moral's shift dramatically:

They way they learn is complete: they totally indulge in investigating
in their new thoughts and they want to see them played out, then when
they try it then they see if it works and if not they change

**Give each of them three aspects of ross that they can try and play
out**

Please give them a formal plan next time. But don't tell the same
stories twice

Next rehearsal is movement focused!

Have rehearsal with garry and steve before next rehearsal

Adrianne: not tuesday morning

Tuesday the 3rd- 11:30-12?

Message them so they can check when they get home

Want slide show with pictures

Opening and closing definitely

Then three bits per chaptre - a whole show

As ross plays, when they feel inspired they can go up and do something
(song, bit, etc.)

They can do an interpretive dance and song

Want ross to end each scene with their feelings.

**IDEAS:**

Sounscape could end the show

Restricted to one word: ask ross or garry asks the actors what they feel
about it in one word

Each take a letter of ross's name and they can only say words that start
with that letter

percussive - only use percussive noises

Dance bit?

Collaborative novel game but with details from ross's life

Offbook: podcast improv musical

Next time: practice opening and closing more concretely

Closing: I see my future

"Now you're part of my life. My life unfulfilled but full. I invite you
to go forward with me. To look forward. To go forward to tomorrow with
me"

My life is full of memories, memories of my past. But these memories
will last. I look forward to tomorrow.

Because everyone is broken. Theres so much that is unspoken. When you
dont know how to cope. The answer is always hope.

Hope.

Next rehearsal: working together more

Show needs: tightening from ross

They can walk in and theyll be fine

Want to rehearse with garry

**Rehearsal w Garry:**

WHATS THE OBJECTIVE?

Recap

Way to introduce the show that lets the audience know that this is

**Where will garry be spatially?**

Likes laura's impulse to break down into countable units

Can look at song breakdown for a musical

**Some way of indicating the scenes coming to an end (bell?)**

Props + costumes = instruction if were changing location or time, a new
characters introduced or im going to represent this insecurity with this
hat

Narrator- who's part of the show but not really clearly

Always has a wish to let the audience in on things: what can we let them
know about? Is there a way to inform or include them thats fun and
playful.

And now under your chair you will find one sentence about ross

What could break the rhythm, break the pattern, surprise people, invite
people to be in it

As an audience, are we being challenged? Do we want to be?

If we change the colour of lights every section

What are ways that we can practise that are helpful to you?

-want access to the document

-want to cut it up to simulate how it might be

-bring q's back to ross

-wants to read the document

-try and find 12 "scenes"

-wants to try some of the forms we've already come up with (letter of
the name, etc.)

-maybe direct next rehearsal (will let us know)

Using ross's closet for costumes

Props- is it necessary, why, what?

Could people film themselves as part of the show

Live projecting the film as part of the show

Tempting to lean into the ideas- what if we just leaned into all the
things

Even if its wrong lets just own it

Not half heartedly doing it. Here out of love and curiosity

Weary about rehearsing too much and being stuck in the way that it once
was

Check in:

-   how are you?

-   Offering and ask (1 sentence each)

-   What are you comfortable in doing in this process?

Play

-   Try out some of the ideas

-   What do you need to be able to rehearse? Should we just pick 5
    > scenes or would you like to read the detailed breakdown?

-   "And now ross will play a final closing number to send you all
    > home" - example of the dramaturg role

-   Give input about scenes (Sophia)

-   

Check out

-   What worked

-   What didn't work

-   Pick next rehearsal date

-   

Brainstorm list of things we need for day of

-float

Jar to put \$ in (cash register)

-   Write a list of names and emails of people who attended and people
    > who need to etransfer

-table

-xmas lights

-table cloth (bed sheet/curtain)

-pens + paper

-tablet

Camera + tripod

-chocolate

-popcorn

-kids books

-wear all blacks for actors

\- bring some costumes (hat, shaker, wings, mask,

-sound equipment

\- batteries for wireless mics

\-

-lights

-instruments

~~-organise a ride to transport day of~~

-anyone want to volunteer to work the door/foh

-props ?

-water bottles for actors + ross

-food for actors (popcorn, apples, lentil soup)

**Rehearsal 2:**

Garry is leading

Ross speaks to the idea of biography

The act of biography is when you\'re trying to capture the essence of
something

Likes the occasional notes being played while ross speaks

Good when you interject after/in the middle of the scene

When Adrianne asks Q, it's good

MAKE BIRTHING MUSIC

Make a do not disturb sign when ross just wants to play alone

Yes and it

Garry introduce what this show is and why it exists

Ross plays and overture

Actors play an opening scene

Before intermission we might: (Garry would say something like that)

Meet at here before hand day of.

World setting

-   Welcome to my life

-   Welcome to my family

-   Welcome to my mind

-   Welcome to my soul

-   Welcome to my Empire

I want

-   I want to be successful

-   I want to please my dad

-   I want to win the game

-   I want to be a good person

-   I want to stand out

-   I want to feel like I belong

-   I want to change the world

Conflicting needs/worldviews

-   You\'re a man

-   You\'re white

-   You\'re a kid

-   You\'re a programmer

-   You\'re a musician

-   You don\'t have time for that

-   

Teaching/learning song

-   Learn to learn

-   Lock yourself away, practice every day. Fill that lonely hole

-   You don\'t have to be a \_

-   Fake it till you make it

-   Not practicing makes perfect

Anthem

-   

Internal conflict

-   

Villain song

-   

Hero moment

-   

Finale

**CHARACTERS**

-   Identities

    -   Queer Ross

    -   Immigrant Ross

    -   Robot / Relational / Neurodiverse Ross

    -   Spirit Ross

    -   Polymath/Prodigy/Master Ross

-   Functions

    -   Empire Ross / Creator Ross

        -   DC

    -   Trickster Ross

        -   Exploiting systems

    -   Trauma Ross

        -   

    -   Surrender Ross

    -   

-   

-   

-   

-   

-   

**Welcome to my life**

Welcome to my life

Welcome to my family

Welcome to my mind

Welcome to my soul

Welcome to my Empire

**THEME OUTLINES**

The show will explore 4 major themes, with scenes inspired by real
events such as:

1)  **Queerness:**\
    > I realised I was nonbinary in 2017. My whole life I had felt
    > uncomfortable about gender, and this was the first time I met
    > someone who identified as nonbinary, and they became a role-model
    > for me. As I reflected on my life, I realised how much masculinity
    > had been forced onto me, and all the way in which I rebelled
    > against it. As a child I wanted to wear dresses and makeup. I
    > wanted to be "one of the girls". I realised that many of my
    > friends in high school were queer, which seemed like a coincidence
    > at the time, but now it seems obvious why. In 2013 I went on a
    > date with someone who was trans, and afterwards they talked about
    > how my energy kept flipping between masculine and feminine, and
    > how it made them feel. I'm also polyamorous, an identity that has
    > ended many relationships for me. At a lakota ceremony in 2019
    > there was a moment where they invited all the women and
    > two-spirited folks to stand in a circle, and they included me in
    > that. Everyone else stood around and witnessed us and expressed
    > gratitude. It was a life-changing experience to be seen and
    > celebrated so explicitly.

2)  **Immigration:**\
    > I come from a long line of immigrants. My parents, my
    > grandparents, great grandparents, and beyond that we don't know,
    > although as a jew it seems that immigration runs deep in my
    > ancestry. There are things you learn as an immigrant, such as how
    > to save for a rainy day, how to minimize your possessions, how to
    > emotionally leave behind your home.\
    > \
    > While working with some healers this fall I had visions. I saw
    > each of my grandparents and how migration has affected their lives
    > in a deeply traumatic way - escaping war, famine, sexual abuse. I
    > saw how their traumas were passed down to each of my parents, who
    > in turn also emigrated, escaping the soviet union. I saw how all
    > that trauma was passed down to me, and how in turn I left my home
    > behind to come to Canada. I saw how all these things fractured my
    > family, and how this trauma has been a barrier to connecting and
    > feeling a sense of belonging anywhere in the world. I saw myself
    > on an iceberg in the middle of the ocean, isolated, alone, barely
    > staying afloat. I saw how my relationship with the concept of
    > "family" and "home" has affected my ability to connect with people
    > and places deeply.

3)  **Neurodiversity:**\
    > I always knew my brain worked differently. I was always an
    > overachiever, and I was simultaneously hyper focused and also
    > struggled to focus on anything for very long. I always found
    > people incredibly challenging. I didn't understand what they
    > wanted from me or how to interact with them. In 2011 I joined an
    > improv troupe that my friend had started and the very clear
    > exercises that I practiced there taught be how to interact with
    > people. In 2013 a friend of mine suggested that I might have
    > aspergers. I never got officially diagnosed because I opposed the
    > way that the medical system pathologies neurodiversity, but
    > looking at the symptoms online, I meet almost every criteria. I
    > have had many challenging and hilarious experiences with partners
    > due to the way my brain works.

4)  **Spirituality:**\
    > I grew up atheist. My parents talked about religion as
    > brainwashing, and for me this created a deep distrust of anything
    > mystical. We were jewish, but only culturally. My family kept a
    > distance from religious jews for fear of not being accepted. When
    > I was 13 my mom read me a book called the celestine prophecy, and
    > it was the first time that I engaged with spirituality with an
    > open heart. The book talked about energy and connection with
    > nature, and for months after that I walked around trying to
    > connect with plants and people in a spiritual way. In 2017 I
    > started participating in sweat lodges, sundances, and other
    > ceremonies in the lakota tradition. I've been learning about
    > prayer, and ceremony, and decolonization in a way that's
    > profoundly changed my life. I regularly have visions. I feel a
    > calling to help others with trauma and shadow work. I'm slowing
    > down and healing my relationship with time and unshackling myself
    > from the teeth of capitalisms obsession with productivity. I'm
    > trying to learn about the traditions of my ancestors, which is
    > hard to do when they haven't been passed down to me. I'm going to
    > Siberia to try to track down my grandma's roots. Last week I
    > skinned a coyote and made a shaker from it's bones in a ceremony.
    > I've never felt so connected to my ancestors.

**SCENE BREAKDOWN**

**Episode 1 - A Queer Story**

Opening scene: Who am I? How am I so broken? This song will repeat for
each episode with different verses - this verse will explore my
relationship with gender

Scene 2: Dressing up in my mom's clothes, and putting on make-up in
front of a mirror, age 4. Mom walks in and tells me to get out of that
before my dad gets home. Mom cuddles me. Grandma says "don't be so
affectioned or you'll make him queer"

Scene 3: age 8, trying to be friends with the girls. playing a silly kid
game (truth or dare), and thinking that I'm one of the girls, but then
someone says something that makes me realise they're laughing at me.

Scene 4: age 12, entering middle school. Some older kid decides to call
me Samantha. At first I think he's picking on me, but then I realise
that it's kinda nice so I play along.

Scene 5: age 16. Highschool party. Someone comments that they bet I'd
look better in their dress than they do. We exchange clothes. I love it.
2 friends of mine who are a couple cuddle me, and we talk about
polyamory. My first kiss is a boy, but only because I'm bored. I don't
think I'm actually into it, but it was worth a shot. Didn't really
answer any questions for me about who I am.

Scene 6: age 20, going on a date with someone who is trans. We hang out
all night, and in the morning they tell me that they couldn't figure me
out\...that my energy kept flipping between genders, and how it was a
new experience for them. I talk about how I've been dreaming about
bearing children and how random that is. They say that someday it'll be
possible.

Scene 7: age 24, writing a trans character into one of my musicals.
Realising how much that resonates with my experience. Writing them song
where the chorus is "Cos this is who I am,

This is who I've always been".

Scene 8: age 25, a workshop with grade 5s. The teacher is asking the
kids to split into groups of 5. one of the groups has 4 "boys" who have
been disruptive that afternoon, so she says "there's too many boys in
this group. we need more girls". I know for a fact that one of the kids
is gender non-conforming, and I feel deeply, unreservedly angry about
gender for the first time in my life.

Closing scene: age 26, I date someone who is nonbinary. Feel seen and
appreciated in all the ways. I see our future together, children,

**Episode 2 - An Immigrant Story**

Opening scene: Who am I? How am I so broken? This version of the song
will be about feeling disconnected from my family and ancestors, and
feeling like I have no home.

Scene 2: I become my Grandfather escaping the war, age 10. Walking
through the forest for 5 days, oldest man in the family. I become my
other grandfather, killing a man at age 11.

Scene 3: I become my Grandma eating a vegetable from the garden and
getting berated because there's not enough food to go around. I become
my other grandmother, living with sexual assault from a gardian while
her parents are off at the war.

Scene 4: I become my Mom, Dad, and Brother getting on a plane to leave
behind the USSR and start a new life in Australia. A song about the
things we leave behind. As my dad, I leave behind a daughter. I leave
behind my parents and siblings. I leave behind my home

Scene 5: I become my Uncle arriving in Australia, single dad with 3
kids. I reach out to my family for support, but they can only do so
much. I don't speak the langauge, I don't have a profession.

Scene 6: I become myself, pre-school. age 4. Can't speak english.
Confused about why I've been left here. Scary teacher makes me eat my
cheese sandwich. I hate cheese, but I can't explain that because I don't
speak the language. I feel sick and I want to go home, but I can't
explain that.

Scene 7: Going to a new school. Dad says "don't tell anyone you're
jewish. You don't know about anti-semitism yet, but some people will
hate you just for being a jew". Dad encourages me to not get too close
to other russians, because it'll get in the way of learning the language
and Australian culture, and they can be a bad influence.

Scene 8: Montage. I go through a series of relationships where I try to
connect with people, but because of my relationship with the concept of
family, everything ends disastrously; either I am overcommitted and
trying too hard, or I'm aloof and avoiding forming a deep bond.

Scene 9: I am 20, telling my parents I'm moving to Canada with my future
wife. Mom crying, telling me this is her karma\...she left her parents
behind, and now I'm leaving her behind. I get on the plane and realise
that I've made a terrible mistake.

Scene 10: I start a nonprofit in Canada, trying to plant some roots
here, building an empire one project at a time.

Scene 11: My parents come to visit me. I haven't seen them in 4 years.
We have a LOT to talk about. I come out to them about gender, and also
talk about childhood trauma, and how important it was to be apart from
them.

Closing Scene: I dreams of starting an ecovillage and a tiny house
caravan on a ship so that I can sail from continent to continent, and
take my home and family with me, and visit my parents. I reflect on the
concept of chosen family, and how my trauma and capitalism/patriarchy
has prevented me from forming deep connection. I commit to care for
people deeply and in a long term way.

**Episode 3 - A Neurodiversity Story**

Opening scene: Who am I? How am I so broken? This version of the song
will be about how I feel different, and judged for the way my brain
works, and how I feel my relationships with people are incomplete and
misunderstood.

Scene 2: Age 4, learning two languages and music. Performing moonlight
sonata and Rossifying it. Piano teacher tells me that I can't just make
stuff up, I have to play it as written, and if I want to make stuff up I
should become a composer. Grandmother calling me her "little mozart".

Scene 3: Age 6. Wanting to have a friend over to play. Mom says to ask
my dad. Before I get the question out, he talks about how smart I am,
and how stupid these australian kids are, how he's glad I'm not wasting
my time with them. He gives me a new book to read. I never ask him.
Learning computer programming. playing chess. Studying high school
textbooks after school, just for fun. Song: knowledge will be my friend

Scene 4: Age 9. Depression. Feeling lonely. Not understanding why I
don't have any friends or how to interact with people. Trying to have
friends at school, but not really connecting. My teachers aren't helping
me learn more, it feels like they're holding me back. Song: this world's
not made for me.

Scene 5: Age 12, writing my first musical. preparing to stage it at
school. Becoming a sound engineer in order to produce the backing
tracks. Working 12 hour days. Working myself to death, figuratively.

Scene 6: Age 16, My first relationship. Heartbreak for everyone.
Realising I'm a robot. Yearning to be a human, to be humane. Sitting
high school exams, and getting incredible grades because I memorised
everything. Song about how I'd give it all up just to feel love and care
and connection and to be a human.

Scene 7: age 17, joined an improv troupe. Learning all the people skills
that I missed growing up. Discovering that my parents are misogynist,
and how many of my beliefs are problematic. Starting to relearn
everything. Interviewing people about how they interact socially and
making a self-help pamphlet about it.

Scene 8: age 18, realising that I don't feel empathy. Feeling hurt and
isolated because people in my life are mad at me and say awful things
about me. Wondering if I'm a bad person. Realising that sometimes it's
just an unfortunate situation, and I tried my best to act in an ethical
way, but there was no right answer. I reflect on cancel culture, and how
our society has become so quick to blacklist people. Meanwhile, my
friend is studying psychology and makes me take a simple test, and tells
me that it seems likely that I have aspergers, and adhd.

Scene 9: age 20. Song about how practice makes perfect. I meet 5 new
people a week for a year and practice socialising. Start to feel
comfortable with it.

Closing scene: Song - Two brain thinking, two heart feeling, about how I
am two people at once now, the robot and the human.

**Episode 4 - The Spirit Path**

Opening scene: Who am I? How am I so broken? This version of the song
will explore my relationship with spirituality, and how the traditions
of my ancestors have been lost to me, and how I don't know how to
connect with prayer.

Scene 2: My grandmother tells me that I'm special, and that I'm going to
change the world, and there's something deeply spiritual about this
interaction. She asks what is the most important organ in the body, and
I answer the heart. She says most people would have said the brain, but
that she thinks I'm not wrong. She teaches me about manifesting - make a
wish, and really believe that it will come true, and then forget about
it and it will happen eventually.

Scene 3: Parents revering intelligence and intellect, pushing me to be
smarter. Dad tells me about how religion is brainwashing. The instant
gratification of using your brain and being able to see the results
immediately encourages me to leave behind my heart and intuition. An
internal conflict song about what to do when something feels wrong but
you can't explain why. There's a moment where my parents are saying
"come on, we have to go" and I can't leave, because my intuition is
telling me to stay, but I can't explain why to them. I'm frozen.

Scene 4: Mom reads me a book about spirituality and energy work and
connecting with plants. It makes the world feel magical. I get lost in
it for a moment and then brush it off as nonsense. My friends invited me
to a wiccan ceremony and I go because I'm lonely. This is my first time
engage with spirituality and ritual with other humans. I'm a bit
judgemental at first, but also curious. A song about the magic hiding in
plain sight. I try to connect with plants, and send people love and it
feels incredible.

Scene 6: I'm presenting a workshop at a conference and one of the
facilitators sings the Mi'kmaw honor song and I start crying. I never
cry like this. I hear a calling to work with ceremony and song and
ancestral knowledge, but it clashes with my busy life. A song about
what's really important.

Scene 7: I go to my first sweat lodge and learn how to pray for the
first time. The men there help me reconnect with "divine masculine", and
I realise that they are helping me process my relationship with toxic
masculinity and to learn that not all "masculinity" is toxic

Scene 8: I work with ayahuasca and have visions of my ancestors, and all
the rituals and ceremonies that have been lost. I have visions of a wolf
eating my throat, and of becoming an eagle. I have visions of my
ancestors sitting around a fire and calling me to join them. I hear the
calling to make a drum and rattles, to work with roadkill, to sing songs
that I'd never heard before. This is the coming of age ceremony that I
never had.

Scene 9: I go to another ceremony, where there are many women and queer
elders. They call me two-spirited and help me to embrace my spiritual
role as a non-binary person, someone who walks both ways, who brings
balance and a different kind of understanding. I hear a calling to work
with women on their moon time. I hear a calling to revive the traditions
of my ancestors through visions and music.

Scene 10: I connect with some witches in Halifax and become part of a
witchy sisterhood. I realise that I'm a trickster spirit, and learn to
embrace this part of myself. I help to host a moon time ceremony,
stepping into my visions and my callings.

Closing Scene: I see the rest of my life unfold before my eyes. I'm a
maker of sacred objects. I sing ceremony songs. I become a life doula,
helping people through life using ceremony and ritual. I'm nomadic,
taking my home with me, and exchanging knowledge of ceremony with the
different peoples that I encounter.

**Key points for actors**

-   Likes to stand out / Eccentric

-   Likes to understand and exploit systems

-   Likes to teach / can make up an explanation for anything

-   Learns / Memorises things very quickly

-   Hates surprises

-   Socialises in a formulaic way / everyone knows me

-   Likes to go deep, obsessed with sharing / being seen

-   Trickster

-   Visionary

-   Particular, strong sense of taste, often different from the
    > mainstream

-   Unapologetically myself

-   Trusts in intuition.

IDEAS for bowl of memories

-   #losing a friend over carrying a cake

-   #Getting a dog instead of a computer for my birthday

-   #Celestine prophecy and connecting with trees

-   #primary school before I could speak English

-   #lentil as anything

-   #confest

-   #laying an egg

**Bowl of memories (to do: elaborate):**

In 11th grade I tried to stage a musical I had written with a cast and
orchestra of 50 people and it was a fiasco. I worked my ass off for a
year writing out scores and trying to organise people, and by the end of
it there was only 25 people left, and afterwards I felt defeated and
didn't want to organise anything ever again.

In 7th grade I met a stranger on a bus. He was into music, and
programming. We exchanged emails, and forgot all about each other. A few
years later I was sending out an email about rehearsals for a show, and
I cc'd the wrong "jack", and he said, "Sure, I'll be in your show".
After that we became best friends for a bit.

In 2016 I had a low-key wedding. The lowest key. We were broke, and I
don't really believe in weddings. But I got married. In my living room.
My parents came on skype. I found it all very uncomfortable. We had
agreed to keep it minimal, but there was a request for real flowers at
the wedding. Having left it to the very last minute, I ran to the lovely
second hand store down on Almon street and as I arrived, the store had
JUST closed. Panicked, I kept banged on the door until someone finally
came out to tell me that they were closed. "We can't sell you anything"
they said, "except maybe these flowers". I came home with a lovely
bouquet of roses that I'd bought for a dollar, just in time for my own
weddings. Serendipity.

For the longest time, I couldn't understand how people socialised. One
day I asked a friend about it. He broke it down for me into 10 easy
steps. I turned that into a self-help pamphlet, and practiced until I
got it. I used to be so scared of talking to strangers. Now it's second
nature.

In Melbourne where I grew up, the trains stop at midnight. I lived in
the suburbs, 45 minutes drive from downtown. One night, I missed the
last train. At first, I starting freaking out, imagining being stuck
there, having to sleep outside, or paying for a cab. But then I thought
fuck it, and I donned my trusty rollerblades, blasted some tunes in my
ears, and made blazed down the streets of melbourne for the 2 hours it
took to get home.

I will be pregnant in this lifetime. When I was a teenager, I was
convinced that I was going to be the first human to lay an egg. I knew
that someday science would make it possible, and I was preparing myself
to be the guinea pig. There's experiments in south america, with a male
bodied human giving birth after a uterus transplant. I don't understand
this calling that I have; I don't especially want children, but I feel
it deeply in my body. I've been pushing it aside for years, but it's not
going anywhere.

One day I'm going to build an intentional community on a freight ship.
We're gonna grow food, and travel up and down the coast doing
performances and making art. We'll have a fleet of vans and trailers for
when we need to go inland, and we'll be entirely self-sufficient. The
vision of building this floating village is so clear and grounding, I
just have to figure out how to deal with motion sickness.

I remember the first time my parents came to visit me after I left home.
I hadn't seen them for 4 years. I'd never allowed myself to miss people.
I was always looking forward. My defense mechanisms force me to bury
feelings about things that I cannot change. It was a complicated visit.
I learned so much about who I was, and how growing up with my parents
had shaped me. We had to have some difficult conversations. I hadn't
realised how freeing it is to grow up, to become your own person.

When I was little, my parents thought I was tone deaf, because I LOVED
to sing. very loudly. And I really wasn't hitting the notes. So they got
me piano classes. Obviously. But I didn't like to practice, especially
not what was written on the page. I wanted to make up my own music. It
was the same story with classical guitar lessons when I was 10. I just
couldn't get excited about playing things the same way twice, so I'd
make up something different each time. It wasn't until university, when
I discovered JAZZ in a deep way, that I finally found my place.

The first time I went dumpster diving, my friend introduced me to a
tradition: pray to the dumpster gods for what you want to find. I prayed
for mangoes. We found a box of 50 mangoes. It made the world feel
magical.
