WHY?

-   Halifax north end is running out of venues. The living room theatre,
    > the waiting room, the old pool hall, kamphyre, the company house
    > are all closed now.

WHAT

-   A trailer that becomes a stage/venue.

    -   14ft by 8ft flatbed trailer

    -   5ft by 14ft fold out stage

    -   All aluminium body; lightweight. Can be pulled by SUV or a small
        > truck.

    -   All lighting and sound and projector and battery equipment
        > provided by Dramatic Changes. For a [[complete list see our
        > rental
        > coop]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/1dKwXYDLBk3wVBuNy0VtYUr973A3k0QOuheC_H1IPwBI/edit?usp=sheets_web)

    -   Decorated and designed by the community

        -   Community arts project to make this special to HRM.

HOW

-   Design and Construction

    -   Overseen by Dominique Arsenault, qualified civil engineer

-   Uses

    -   Street parties stage

    -   Transform Parking lots and other underutilized spaces into
        > venues

    -   Outdoor Movie screenings

    -   Live music and theatre performances

    -   Multipurpose rental

        -   Community Clothing swap

        -   Community potluck / pwyc meals

    -   Meeting room for nonprofits

-   Funding

    -   HRM

    -   Nova Scotia

    -   Free parking at community houses?

    -   Insurance covered by ticket sales and rentals?

-   

WHO

-   Dramatic Changes

    -   Ross Unger, Project coordinator + builder

    -   Dominique Arsenault, civil engineer

    -   We are forming a committee to oversee the project and make
        > decisions

    -   Other artists: grey, yalitsa, korrina,

-   Community partners (dapopo theatre, 2b theatre, etc)

    -   We are reaching out to other Arts organisations to confirm that
        > a space such as this would be used and to see

-   Festivals who might rent the stage:

    -   Live-in festival

    -   Prismatic

    -   Jazz fest

    -   Obey

    -   Emerging lens

    -   Hiff

    -   Huff

    -   Fringe festival

    -   Nocturne

    -   Dal swing society

    -   Buskers festival

    -   Black street neighborhood party

-   Neighbors and friends of dramatic changes

    -   Volunteers to help move the stage

WHERE

-   HRM uses

    -   Beach-side performances

    -   Forests/Nature/parks

    -   Street parties

-   Storage

    -   Stored in community drive-ways

        -   Going to get a bunch of signatures from neighbors

        -   We have a more permanent location near Maitland confirmed
            > for storage if we need.

    -   Parking lot rental

    -   

-   

BUDGET

-   \$20,000 trailer and materials (approximate guess)

-   \$200 art supplies to design and paint the trailer

-   \$5000 labor

-   \$??? Insurance?

UNKNOWNS

-   Is there a way to use this well in the winter?

-   How much will insurance actually be? \$500/yr? We have submitted
    > forms to get a quote for general commercial liability insurance

DRAMATIC CHANGES TRAILER STAGE

The Social Justice Trailer stage is a mobile venue equipped with
lighting, projection, and audio equipment for outdoor events. Built on a
14ftx8ft aluminium flatbed trailer, the venue has a modular design with
movable walls/roof, accessibility ramp, and a solar panel and battery
system that can power everything for off-grid events.

The Social justice trailer stage is being created in 2020 and is
designed to help us bring our projects across the province and to
support grass-roots social justice and community building projects.
Ongoing expenses for the venue will be subsidized by professional
rentals and it will be available at significantly discounted prices for
projects that align with our mandate to support social justice projects.

The venue can be used for outdoor concerts, theatre performances, film
screenings, mobile art gallery, and much more. We will be taking this
venue across nova scotia to bring social justice arts to rural areas.

Our mandate is to create social justice art, to amplify marginalised
voices, support diversity in the arts, and provide mentorship. We have
created several projects that we will take across the province including
a puppet musical about sustainability, an anti-oppressive improv troupe,
a project about mental health and peer support, and a feminist dance
party performance featuring 40 original songs we've created around
feminist themes and lived experience. All of these projects were created
as collaborations between professional artists and their extended
communities based on lived experiences and issues that they are dealing
with.

We have already acquired a flatbed trailer, all the lighting, sound,
projector, and battery equipment for this project. The next steps are
the solar panels, accessibility ramp, and the construction of the
modular walls and roof. We
