Personal Growth, an Edu-musical

CONCEPT

-   A schools tour that teaches kids about how to grow things and tells
    > important stories. Anthropomorphised plants sings about being
    > connected, and how scary the changes in the world are.

We are partnering with Nova Scotian farmers to develop a new Arts
project about sustainability.

We live in a climate crisis, and folks need to reconnect with the earth,
the food, the water, and all the things that sustain us.

Over the past 4 years of working in community arts we have heard
alarming stories of disconnect such as children who had only seen
vegetables in supermarkets and didn\'t know that they were grown in the
earth.

We will be collaborating with farmers to create an interactive puppet
performance where we animate plants and other nature as characters to
tell stories of farming, lifecycles, water, and other sustainability
topics.

Imagine an old school Sesame Street style show, with a sunflower puppet
that talks about planting seasons and almonacs, and a worm puppet that
talks about compost, and a bee that talks about pollination, featuring
local farmers as special guests sharing their personal stories of why
they became farmers and the challenges they\'ve faced, and their
greatest successes. Audiences participate during interactive moments
where they learn how to planting seeds, or test soil for contaminants.

We will spend a week at each farm collecting stories and workshops ideas
with the farmers. We will run a puppet making and puppeteering workshop
open to the public. We will then do a presentation/performance at the
farm using our brand new trailer stage - a mobile venue designed to
bring the Arts across Nova Scotia. We will film the performance and
publish it online.

The future of this project is to partner with schools to help bring kids
to farms where possible, and to bring farms to kids where not. This
project will become a living archive of Nova Scotian sustainability
initiatives that will extend beyond farms to include solar and wind
farms, recycling, permaculture, and much more. As we develop deeper
relationships we hope to feature and support the Mi\'kmaw water
protectors and other traditional knowledge carriers.

Our objectives with this project are:

\- to share knowledge

\- to highlight local struggles and celebrate achievements

\- to put names and faces to the important sustainability work being
done in Nova Scotia,

\- to alleviate feelings of hopelessness and helplessness by presenting
avenues for how Nova Scotians can participate in the sustainability
movement in a time of climate crisis.

We\'re making a interactive education musical about food justice aimed
at school kids. The show will feature plants coming to life to teach
them traditional stories (such as the 3 sisters), histories of food
justice (such as stories about guerilla farming, and the battle against
monsanto/corporations), sciency things (such as lifecycles and what soil
is) and there will be an interactive element where the kids can plant
seeds, collect fruit, and test the soil (We will have slightly different
versions for p-6, 7-9, and 10-12 to suit their curriculum and skill
level). The show will be a nova scotia schools tour in 2018/2019, and we
will try to feature local farmers in each county.

We are trying to include as much information as possible, and are super
open to new ideas of what kids should be learning about! we\'d also like
to celebrate local nonprofits and grassroots groups who have been doing
amazing work in Nova Scotia.

[[https://nourishns.ca/edible-school-gardens]{.underline}](https://nourishns.ca/edible-school-gardens)

[[http://foodarc.ca/projects/act-for-cfs/publications-and-resources/#provincial]{.underline}](http://foodarc.ca/projects/act-for-cfs/publications-and-resources/#provincial)

[[http://lenoyau.com/en/autochtone/]{.underline}](http://lenoyau.com/en/autochtone/)

Articles:

[[https://www.politico.com/agenda/story/2017/09/13/food-nutrients-carbon-dioxide-000511]{.underline}](https://www.politico.com/agenda/story/2017/09/13/food-nutrients-carbon-dioxide-000511)

-   Co2 changing nutrient levels in plants

[[http://www.bbc.com/earth/story/20141111-plants-have-a-hidden-internet]{.underline}](http://www.bbc.com/earth/story/20141111-plants-have-a-hidden-internet)

-   mycelium

[[http://www.drawdown.org]{.underline}](http://www.drawdown.org)

[[https://earthmatter.org/compost-learning-center/methods-and-compost-devices/]{.underline}](https://earthmatter.org/compost-learning-center/methods-and-compost-devices/)

-   Chicken compost

[[http://www.carryoncomposting.com/416920206]{.underline}](http://www.carryoncomposting.com/416920206)

-   Micro-organisms in compost

TEAM

-   Erica

    -   Biological processes

    -   Connecting with people

-   Ross

-   Dane

-   Potential people

    -   Courtney harris

    -   

-   People who might be interested

    -   Milan

    -   Brogan

    -   Ben Mogl

    -   

-   

What to Teach

-   How to use a compass / where the sun is

-   How to compost

-   Recycling

Arugula bolting ("oh no! We're not gonna make it! Quick, go to seed!)

Symbiosis

Metaphor for human isolation vs 3 sisters

Metaphor human body = [the Earth's biosphere?]{.underline}

The body is an eco-system...most of your cells are micro-organisms. The
soil has to be treated that way too

Earth Week

POTENTIAL PARTNERS

Our Food project

(green school garden program)- just launching a new food education
program this summer called Plants to Plates and also working on a
facilitator's guide (which I'll forward- it's old and still needs to be
edited, which I just volunteered to do, but it'll have helpful info
nonetheless)

+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| [[georgia@eco   |                                                    |
| logyaction.ca]{ |                                                    |
| .underline}](ma |                                                    |
| ilto:georgia@ec |                                                    |
| ologyaction.ca) |                                                    |
| (in Cape Breton |                                                    |
| but is          |                                                    |
| overseeing the  |                                                    |
| development of  |                                                    |
| the guide),     |                                                    |
|                 |                                                    |
| [[jenorgan@ecol |                                                    |
| ogyaction.ca]{. |                                                    |
| underline}](mai |                                                    |
| lto:jenorgan@ec |                                                    |
| ologyaction.ca) |                                                    |
+=================+====================================================+
|                 |                                                    |
+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------+

ACORN (Atlantic Canadian Organic Regional Network)

-   Applying the "organic lens"

-   "Local and organic are better together"

-   http://www.acornorganic.org/about/organic

Daniel weisman 7 sisters

Pechacucha?

Going into the soil

Rob mcnieche

Nourish NS

[[Jill.White@hrsb.ca]{.underline}](mailto:Jill.White@hrsb.ca), HRSB
School Nutritionist and

[[christine.mcphail7@gmail.com]{.underline}](mailto:christine.mcphail7@gmail.com),
a Public Health NS nutritionist

Halifax Food Policy Alliance

-   Utilizing municipal assets

-Their capacity is pretty limited for expanding on what they're doing
right now, but they're working on formalizing their relationship with
the HRM municipality so that could mean great things for this project.
Who knows! Just in case-

[[Madeleine.Waddington@nshealth.ca]{.underline}](mailto:Madeleine.Waddington@nshealth.ca)
(Nutritionist)

[[Ali.Shaver@nshealth.ca]{.underline}](mailto:Ali.Shaver@nshealth.ca)
(Highly involved with the Mobile Market project)

3 sisters (corn, beans and squash)

-   Pauline meader, Erica messaged on FB, will connect once I know she's
    > down

-   Friendship centre, mikmaw child development centre

-   [[http://www.wabano.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/CLANconnections-AUGUST-2014-final-2.pdf]{.underline}](http://www.wabano.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/CLANconnections-AUGUST-2014-final-2.pdf)
    > ???

Common Roots

-   Jayme melrose

-   [[higambanablooms@gmail.com]{.underline}](mailto:higambanablooms@gmail.com)

Connect with something geographically local

Found Forgotten Food,
[[laurel@foundns.com]{.underline}](mailto:laurel@foundns.com),
[[lindsay@foundns.com]{.underline}](mailto:lindsay@foundns.com)

-   Harvest surplus / wasted food

-   "Grow a row"

-   Seed harvesting?

The Deanery,
[[[thedeaneryproject@gmail.com]{.underline}](mailto:thedeaneryproject@gmail.com),
ask to be connected to Bianca Boudreau]{.mark}

[Roots of Diversity is a Deanery Project youth program about fostering
an appreciation of our rural cultural heritage. It will celebrate
Mi'Kmaq, African Nova Scotian, Acadian and new immigrant traditional
plant knowledge through the creation of garden and art installations
along the Eastern Shore from Preston to Ecum Seecum.]{.mark}

A full day gathering at the Deanery on October 21st will bring together
youth to explore how they might continue to work together on these and
other community actions.

Hope Blooms

Peterwilko@gmail.com, and Shaani Singh, who Erica is connected with on
FB

Kids can Seed harvest

-   Husk pouring

-   Thrashing (hitting the plant)

Documentary

-   GMO OMG on netflix

Preston

-   If you can prove within 5 years that you can farm the land, it'll be
    > yours

-   Farming communities formed.

-   Buddy daye learning institute-
    > [[John.wedderburn@dbdli.ca]{.underline}](mailto:John.wedderburn@dbdli.ca),
    > Sylvia Parris

-   North Preston community: lameia.reddick@gmail.com

-   Sunday Miller \@africville geneological society- waiting on email

Childhood youth program at mount A

Travelling puppet show?

\- historic examples of how people grow

\- permaculture?

\- CSA boxes\...small farms

\- common roots, hope blooms,

\- annapolis seed, heart seed

\- bethany park?

\- northumberland hemp?

\- deanery

\- red clay?

\- urban orchard

\- guerilla gardening

-   What are easy things to grow

Something about the seasons

Permaculture Design Principles

-   Observe and interact

    -   

-   Catch and store energy

    -   Water

    -   Solar

    -   Food preservation

    -   Sleep

    -   Biomass

    -   Compost

-   Produce a yield

-   Apply self regulation and accept feedback

-   Use and value renewable resources and services

-   Produce no waste

-   Design from patterns to details

-   Integrate rather than segregate

-   Use small and slow solutions

-   Use and value diversity

-   Use edges and value the marginal

-   Creatively use and respond to change

Worm bins? Bumble bee?

Water as a character

How do animals fit in?

The seasons?

Plant pairings? What grows well together

Noah's ark type concept\....

How to make your bed?

Who is the villain? Monsanto? big oil? Cement is the villain?

Parallel between being disconnected in cities... social isolation vs
plant isolation

Loneliness in the city... we move here because we're lonely, looking for
connection, but sometimes connection happen with nature...

The Parts We Eat

-   Teaching people about the parts of plants they can and can't eat

"The buds on the trees, the birds in the breeze"

"Let us eat this lettuce together"

**CATEGORIES**

[[https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1w214bQTu_ZhhyB4_5R1UD99p3eJt6F74el2VLQ3Xxss/edit?usp=sharing]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1w214bQTu_ZhhyB4_5R1UD99p3eJt6F74el2VLQ3Xxss/edit?usp=sharing)

**CHARACTERS**

-   Corporations

-   Local Farmers

-   City Council

-   Consumer

-   Animal

-   Vegetable

-   Indigenous storyteller

-   Newcomer farmers

-   Activists and nonprofits

-   Researchers / Scientists

**THEMES**

Cycles

-   Life cycle

    -   Plants use compost + water + sun to grow and create energy

    -   Small animals eat plants to get energy and grow

    -   Big animals eat small animals to get energy and grow

    -   Animals die =\> bacteria eats dead bodies to create compost

-   Water Cycle

    -   Clouds =\> Rainfall/Snow

    -   Melting, running from high places =\> low places

    -   Soak into the ground =\> soaked up by plants =\> Photosynthesis
        > =\> clouds

    -   Runs to the oceans and lakes =\> Sun heats up the water =\>
        > clouds

-   Food Cycle

    -   Produce

    -   Process

    -   Transport

    -   Distribute

    -   Advertise/Sell

    -   Accessibility

    -   Prepare/Consume

    -   Dispose/Recycle

-   Hero's Journey

    -   [[Seed
        > journey]{.underline}](http://futurefarmers.com/seedjourney/)

    -   [[Food
        > miles]{.underline}](http://nsfa-fane.ca/programs-projects/food-miles-project/)

**STORIES**

[Going Into The Soil]{.underline}

[Life from the perspective of a Seed]{.underline}

[The Iroquois Legend of the Three Sisters]{.underline}

The term "Three Sisters" emerged from the Iroquois creation myth. It was
said that the earth began when "Sky Woman" who lived in the upper world
peered through a hole in the sky and fell through to an endless sea. The
animals saw her coming, so they took the soil from the bottom of the sea
and spread it onto the back of a giant turtle to provide a safe place
for her to land. This "Turtle Island" is now what we call North America.
Sky woman had become pregnant before she fell. When she landed, she gave
birth to a daughter. When the daughter grew into a young woman, she also
became pregnant (by the West wind). She died while giving birth to twin
boys. Sky Woman buried her daughter in the "new earth." From her grave
grew three sacred plants---corn, beans, and squash. These plants
provided food for her sons, and later, for all of humanity. These
special gifts ensured the survival of the Iroquois people

A Three Sisters Garden is a method that the Native Americans used and
taught to settlers. The three sisters, 'corn, bean and squash', were
planted together. The combination of plants helps each of them to
produce fully. Corn has a high need for nitrogen, and beans produce a
high amount of nitrogen. Squash plants spread and provide a natural weed
cover. The three plants are also a nutrition powerhouse when combined.
Corn contains carbohydrate, providing a rich source of energy while
beans provide protein and fibre to help balance the release of sugar
into the bloodstream, keeping us fuller for longer. The squash is full
of nutrients, such as vitamin A that helps to maintain good eye health.
Fibre helps keep us regular, lower bad cholesterol and prevent
overeating due to its role in helping us to feel full.

[What if it was illegal to eat outside of a 100km radius]{.underline}

Then the class system would stratify. Rich people would flock to where
they can eat whatever, and everyone else gets pushed to the outskirts
\"I guess we\'re eating grass\"

**Cycles CONCEPT**

Chicken =\> poop =\> compost =\> plants

Fish =\> poop =\> compost =\> plants

Seed =\> seedling =\> plant =\> seed

Egg =\> chick =\> Hen =\> egg

CHICKENS!!!

Dancing creatures...micro-organisms dancing with the food waste

Soil needs nutrients, but even more so it needs the living things that
keep life going

Vermiculture?

Windrose?

Squash and fungi grow in compost exchange sugars and carbohydrates for
minerals, and make more processed compost... then harvest sqaush, and
grow garlic in the same place without disturbing the fungi. r

Squash likes fresh compost

Tomato likes it less fresh

Everything you grow returns to the soil eventually, except when there's
landfill :(

Thermophylic

mesophylic

COMPOST

High heat for 5days-6weeks to kill seeds and weeds etc.

Medium heat for a few months

Low heat for 6months
