Social Justice Community Bank

GAP

-   People have debt

-   People don't have good financial habits

    -   People spend money in search of happiness

-   People are isolated and lonely

-   People don't know what to do with their savings, or how to use them
    > to do good

Objective

-   Help people with debt

-   Teach people financial skills

-   Humanise the "poor"

-   Facilitate human connections (especially between different
    > "classes")

-   Provide a profitable and socially conscious use for people's savings

Target Population

-   Rich people / people with savings

-   Poor people / people with debt

Strategies / Initiatives

-   Partner rich people with poor people

    -   to cancel out debt / provide good interest rates

    -   To provide mentorship

    -   To facilitate human connection

Resources

-   Savings + access to people with savings

-   Grant funding? (arts project?)

-   Credit Union takeover?

Activities

-   Info sessions

-   Train the trainers

-   Meet and greet / Speed-friending / Get to know you

-   Contract signing / Funds transfer

-   Weekly / bi-weekly mentorship lunch?

-   

-   

WHAT IS GOOD FINANCIAL ADVICE

-   Live within your means

-   Put 50% into savings

-   Learn to cook your own food

-   Reconcile credit card debt

-   

-   

INTERVIEWS

[Ross]{.underline}

I've never borrowed money in my life. I've always been the lender. I
come from a line of holocaust survivors and immigrants\...my parents
moved from Russia to Australia a year before I was born, and somehow I
never really got out of that scarcity mentality. I was always saving. My
grandparents had a meagre pension, and they somehow managed to save so
much of it that they were able to give each of their grandchildren
\$5000 for their 18th birthdays. That's nuts. I don't know how they did
it.

We were never poor as far as I remember\...like, my parents were poor
when they moved, but by the time I was 3 or 4, my dad had become a
programmer and was getting decent work\...but we never quite left that
poverty mentality... No matter how well our family was doing, I was
always conscious of how much things cost, and of not asking for too
much, because I didn't want to put a strain on my parents\...

My parents always taught me about money. We had a piggy bank when I was
little, and once a year we'd crack it open and count the money\...I got
really good at counting coins. One year, I think I was maybe 6 years
old, they told me that everything in the piggy bank was mine. There was
over \$300 in there! It was nuts. What did I do with it? My dad somehow
convinced me to invest it in stocks. The stocks plumetted and I lost it
all. Lessons learned.

My parents always taught me to value my time. As a 10 year old, I was
going around thinking my time was worth \$50-100/hr. It's amazing what
that does for your self-esteem and how you view the world. I think they
accidentally ingrained in me this bizarre awareness of the relationship
between time and money. Time is money. Any money you spend, is time that
you'll have to spend working.

When I was 11, I read a book about how rich people become rich. It's
simple. You just put 50% of your gross income into saving or
investments, and then pretty quickly your money works for you and makes
you more money. It was then that I decided that I wanted to save
\$500,000 and then I'd never HAVE to work again. I'd still want to work,
but I would have the freedom not to. At 22 I was 5% of the way there. By
24 it was 10%.

There was a point in my life where my dad was earning a sizeable income.
Most of my life he had made an OK income, but here he had some
disposable income, and he was investing in the stock market. It was
interesting, he would wake up in the middle of the night and do some
trades\...sometimes he'd let me watch and try to explain some things.
I'm not convinced he knew what he was talking about, but at least it got
me thinking about it.

I can't remember the first time I lent someone money. I tried not to
deal with money as much as possible.

My relationship with employment was always weird. I wanted to work
random jobs to learn new skills, but I didn't want it to control me.
I've only ever worked 1 job where I was an employee.

For this project, I lent people some money. It was a little scary, but I
could afford to lose it. For arts sake. They were people I trusted.
People I worked with. I didn't know what to expect, but they needed
money, and I offered, and they hesitated, but eventually accepted.

At first I felt great about it. It wasn't a large amount of money. I
think I risked \$2600 in total. That's a lot of money, but it's not
really. Looking back, I wish I'd started with smaller amounts, for my
own sanity. I was confident in these people.

Then what happened was they weren't able to repay me at the time we
agreed upon. Things had happened, people had screwed them over, but they
insisted that they would be able to pay me back later. At this point
there is very little I could do. I'm not taking someone to small claims
court over a few hundred dollars. It's not worth the time, nor the
damage it would cause to our relationship. All I could do was wait

But eventually it became more of a problem. As delay followed delay, I
could feel myself losing faith in them. I began feeling like they
weren't prioritizing repaying me, and it made me distant from them. I
began hanging out with them less because I didn't want to think about
it, and I was discouraged that every time I brought it up there was more
reasons for delay. And it didn't matter that the reasons were good
reasons... for some reason it was always in the back of my mind. When I
talked about it with other people, it just reinforced this "doubt" that
was developing. In hindsight, I would not talk to others about people
owing me money. It's not nice, and it doesn't fix the problem. It just
makes it worse. Or maybe I would preface it with "I would like you to
listen, and then reassure me that you think this person is probably
good, and will repay their debts"

I don't remember exactly when I learned this, but the best lesson about
lending money is "don't lend money that you can't afford to lose". The
best option is if you are able to think of this money as a gift, and if
the person is able to repay you, then amazing! And if they don't, then
you don't feel so bad. I'm not sure how easy it is to actually do that
though.

Oct3

Today Ifo asked me to send them money as payment for some work they had
done for me. They currently owe me approximately \$2000, and they asked
me to pay them \$100 for something they had done. I'm experiencing a lot
of anxiety, because I don't know how to talk to them about it. They are
months overdue on making repayments on the loan, and my faith is
wavering. Having talked to them I know that their financial situation is
complex. They have indicated that they have nobody else they can borrow
from, and they've been waiting on this funding to come through, and it's
been delayed repeatedly. I know that sending them \$100 will cause me no
financial hardship. And yet, I feel uncomfortable doing it. I feel
anxiety at the mere thought of it. I have indicated that I am over
capacity for how much I feel comfortable lending them, but for some
reason I'm afraid that this situation will become a problem. It's
complicated because I live with this person, and they have significant
ability to make my life miserable. I'm not confident in my ability to
communicate my needs, and I'm not confident that our ideas of what is
"fair" line up.

Oct 5

Today I remember that Katie owes me thousands of dolllars. In focusing
on Ifo I had forgotten all about this beautiful lending experience I
have with Katie.

Katie and I shared a bank account for 2 years. It was a challenging
relationship, but now that we're separated, the money aspect has been
very different. I have so much trust in her. I never doubt whether or
not she will pay me back, and I'm confident that she takes her debt
seriously. At this moment I'm confident she won't decide to go
travelling or borrow more money until she has repaid the loan. She has
been upfront with me about her financial situation. I know that she is
working and she has given me access to her bank account which makes it
easy for me to observe her debt repayments. I think it's this act of
trust in me helps me trust her. I don't even think of this money. It
never haunts me. Periodically she'll ask me if I have any urgent need to
for her to repay me, which is a gentle

Oct 6

Today ifo violently demanded that I pay him for his work. He refused to
have a conversation about it, and said it was fundamentally insulting
that I would even consider not paying him. He was suggesting that the
debt and being paid for his work were unrelated, and that if I had no
intention of paying him I should have told him before he did the job.

He proceeded to communicate that this situation felt like slavery,
requested that I remove his image from the Dramatic Changes website
(which I promptly did), and then threaten that if I did not pay him by
6pm today that he would be done with this relationship and refuse to
talk to me further about anything.

I stayed firm, and tried to respect his requests as much as possible
(I'm still learning how to do that better) but my body is shaking and
vibrating. I feel the weight of the collateral that he has over my head,
and I'm thinking about what it will be like to live with Ifo.

It's hard cos this is my friend\...someone I was trusting\...someone I
live with. The safety of home is compromised.

Today I think of shevy, whom I advanced 600 for work she was then unable
to do. I'm wondering if she'll pay me back. I'm confident in her
integrity, I'm just not sure how to ask her. I'm wondering if she feels
entitled to it?

Oct 8 - an email I DIDN'T send.

I\'m feeling really anxious about the money situation. Borderline
anxiety attacks. I was hoping you might be willing to reassure me about
a few things?\
- I want to clarify that I\'m really impacted negatively by the money
lending dynamic at the moment and would love to get out of it as soon as
possible\...because I need to feel like I have agency. When I first lent
you money it came from a place of trust and open heartedness, and since
then, I have not felt like I had a choice in any of the decisions. I was
comfortable lending you \$1000, but now the debt exceeds \$2000 as far
as I\'m aware ....I understand that you don\'t have capacity to repay me
at the moment but I just want to make sure that I communicated that\
- I\'d love to confirm if I was clear in communicating that i don\'t
have capacity to lend any more money?\
- my anxious mind jumps to all sorts of worst case scenario risk
assessments, and I was hoping you could confirm that you won\'t be
asking me to pay for more than my half of rent this month

Oct 9

Today I was blackmailed again. After discovering that ifo was almost
definitely short on rent this month, despite it being 9 days late, the
conversation shifted to Ifo telling me that I need to pay our
ex-roommate their damage deposit. He refused to have a conversation
about it, and became verbally aggressive, saying that I had to do this
immediately. I\'m not exactly sure what the threat was if didn\'t do it,
but i felt very threatened and manipulated. He was not interested in
hearing that as far as I was concerned, he held the damage deposit. Nor
was he interested in having a conversation about what the plan was for
if he was in fact short on rent. He spoke loudly, refused to let me say
a word, accused me of being an asshole, inconsiderate, denigrated by
integrity, and generally talked in a way that assume that he was right
and anything that went against that what he thought was "fact" was
wrong.

I made breakfast, packed a bag and left, on the verge of an anxiety
attack. I was mostly able to talk myself to calmness, but here I am
sitting on the sidewalk writing, at 9:30, because I don't know what else
to do.

Later, I discuss my situation with friends Zach, and later Garry. This
takes up 2 hours of my day.

Oct 10

Today Ifo threatened to sue me if I were to disclose information about
what he owes me (or something? I'm not sure exactly what he was saying I
couldn't talk about). He suggested I familiarise myself with the federal
privacy act. He said that the information I gave to our previous
roommate, sebastian, was a violation of the his privacy.

Met up with sebastian. They told me that they had got a weird vibe from
Ifo, and that he was doing things that were problematic. When I
explained my situation in more detail, they were suggesting that I
needed to get out of the situation as soon as possible, because it was
ruining my life, and it wasn't going to get better. If I'm being honest,
this situation is probably a HUGE factor in my depression. I called the
tenancy board to see what my rights were, and how I could get out of the
lease. In this conversation, I realised that I'm a victim of domestic
abuse when they told me that to break the lease because a roommate is
being violent and extorting you I would need to speak to victim
services. I called them, and a receptionist told me to leave a message
(which is ridiculous\...what if it was urgent??). I then called Mona,
our landlord and she said I could meet with her in an hour. I biked to
dartmouth to try to sort things out. She was angry (but not at me?) and
I talked to her for an hour trying to figure things out. I feel like I
told her more than I was comfortable with, but I just don't know what to
do anymore. She said if either Ifo or I could fill the house, or find
someone to take over the lease, then there would be no problem.

Angry email from ifo demanding that I send mona 1400. The justification
is "I did at least \$700 for dramatic changes, so you can take it off
that and send her the 1400". I'm not sure why his words still affect me.
It starts all these thought loops. I think it's to do with fairness, and
not understanding why someone would do this.

Oct 11

Today I booked a doctor appointment for oct 20 for my mental health. I'm
barely holding in. Why is this controlling my life?

Spent most of the day dealing with my house situation. I had called
Lincoln, who has known ifo for a long time, to ask for advice. He said
that he tried to warn me, that ifo does this over and over again to
people, and that I should get my stuff out of the house immediately,
before he starts to steal it/sell it. This really kicked me into gear.
Quincy had offered to help me, and I asked Eli if we could borrow his
car. It took us 2 trips, but we got almost everything. Just some
clothing and wood and food and tables left. It's amazing how much more
free I felt now that my stuff was out.

I realise that for the first time, I'm truly homeless. There is
currently no place that I can go to that is safe. I'm lucky that 2
friends have said I can sleep at their house until I figure out what to
do, but if not for that, I don't know what I would do.

I called the police today. Apparently it's not considered domestic abuse
NOR extortion, because it's not a threat unless someone is threatening
to use physical violence on you or your property. That's fucked.

Lessons learnt so far:

-   Do background checks on people you lend money to. All the signs were
    > there.

-   Start with smaller amounts, and don't increase for any reason. Not
    > even emergency.

-   Don't live or work with people you lend money to, or they can use
    > that as collateral.

Oct 12

Today we planned a mediation. I'm dreading it a little because I'm not
sure who can mediate that will be impartial.

I showed up at

Oct 13

Oct 14

Today the power bill came in. Just another thing to stress about.

Oct 15

Today our mediator cancelled. This was a relief and a disappointment

Oct 16

Today we had a very productive mediation, mostly. We may have found a
way to communicate, and Ifo agreed to consider my needs for how we
communicate, however the end of the meeting exploded and now I\'m not
sure if anything we agreed on still stands. I\'m shaken. I feel like I
got sucked into the power dynamic. I hate when that happens. I don\'t
want to be using leverage over anyone.

Oct 18

Emailing back and forth with ifo. So many hours spent thinking about
this over the past week.

I realised that it\'s phrases like "you have no right to..." that make
me feel intimidated and manipulated. If he phrased ideas as invitations
into dialogue and not as facts that assume he\'s right about everything,
then we could actually move forward. I\'m trying to figure out how to
help that happen. I want to communicate better too.

Its getting easier to recover from the impacts of these exchanges.
Anna\'s loving and care really helps to protect me.

No news from any of my other debtors.

Nov 3

I'm living in a new house now. None of the bills are in my name anymore.
The lease is currently in my name, but I'm not worried about it. Life is
beginning to feel a little more free, even though I lost a few thousand
dollars. Maybe Ifo will end up repaying me. We shall see.

Today Katie says that she's saved \$1000 which she'll be able to send me
soon.

Nov 14

Today was the first time in months when I was feeling like didn't really
need to leave this province. It was a distinct shift because since
September I've been wanting to leave and not deal with any of this.

Nov 15

Today my old roommate Eli told me that my landlord came by his house
looking for me to serve me papers.

This was unsettling. Not sure what to do.

I'm looking over my shoulder whenever I walk down the street. I where a
hood. Before, I used to love standing out. Now I'm terrified of being
recognised. It's a bizarre experience. I've been reluctant to go to
events, and definitely can't host my own events. I can't wait to be free
of this.

Nov 20

Today I got legal advice. Nothing helpful.

Nov 26

Today Sebastian asked for their damage deposit again. I don't know what
to do about it. Experienced a lot of anxiety. No word from Ifo :/

Dec 12

This week has been intense. Anna decided to that she was going to help
me sort out my lease and did some crazy hard stuff. Had to serve people
forms, and get an affidavit. It's strange but I do feel a slight sense
of lightness now that I'm not legally responsible for the rest of the
year for this house. Interesting stuff.

Dec 20

Yesterday was the first time I lent money to Anna. She has been VERY
resistant to borrowing money, but she couldn't find her wallet and
needed some groceries. \$48. Such a small amount. I have zero anxiety
about this. Also, haven't thought about

Jan13

Sebastian contacted me again. It affected me deeply.
