---
dg-publish: true
---
(By Heather Fraser)

Here, beneath a cloak-like covering of moss, the secret beings dwell.
For nearly half a century, we have remained hidden from and unknown by
others. When we disappeared, inhabitants of the city and refugee camps
knew only of a reconnaissance mission that went foul, from which nobody
returned. In truth, a careful strategy was devised to forge a new way
forward, based on ancient wisdom, in harmony with the elements and in
the absence of limitations imposed by corrupt rulers of the city.

After three years of clandestine meeting of six elders, a plan was
hatched for a group of 26 to make a fresh start and survive elsewhere,
though of course under the guise of it being a mission to conduct
research about outlying areas in hopes of improving quality of life in
the city. The crew of 26 comprised the six elders, whose wisdom and
intuitive powers would be beneficial in scrutinizing for their potential
resources. The other 20 included experts in specific fields, ranging
from engineering, architecture and waste management to nutrition,
medicine and agriculture. We intentionally included a broad distribution
of healthy people with varying skill sets and age ranges, including one
very brave pregnant woman, [[Alice]].

I will never forget her piercing blue eyes and how she could throw a
sharp sideways glance before you even knew you were in trouble. But full
of love was her heart, and she longed to honour her departed beloved by
offering a different future for their child ... one where they could be
free to dance in the rain and bathe in the sun, to sing the song of
their soul and offer their gifts in this life. She, just like the others
who agreed to this mission, longed to feel the wind caress her hair and
be a child of the universe once again.

Although I was too young to see first-hand how it all began down here, I
have learned over the years that the approach is to use existing organic
matter for filtration of both sunlight and water. There is also a deep
observation of nature and it's patterns in order to notice what (and
when) is available and not over-use it. Nature has taught us how to
enjoy clean drinking water, to harness sunlight beneath the surface of
the earth, and most importantly, how to be good to one another and
honour ourselves deeply at the same time.

Although there is struggle, both on an individual level and as a group,
there is also much kindness and caring in response to unique and
collective challenges. This might even be the very feature of our
existence that allows us to thrive, especially when viewed in contrast
with how things operate in "the city".

Here, embedded in the earth, observing and dancing with malleability and
modifying our ways according to hers, we are alive and fully so. Our
population has shifted along with nature's adaptations, and she is the
teacher of our teachers. When our ears are like the open petals of a
flower, listening to all the raindrops and not just those falling
directly upon us, does life's wisdom distill. Through an osmosis of
understanding offered by the nuances of all seasons, have we ripened to
this abundance.

Living in the fullness of life and allowing her to be our eternal
teacher, we have sacred ceremonies ... to invoke receptivity, to express
our divine nature, and to merge with the mystery of existence. These
lived experiences, which extend beyond the mundane, are our greatest
means to access the wisdom inherent within and all around. Our task is
to have ears to hear and eyes to see, which is somehow a combination of
attentive awareness and a surrender in noticing (relinquishing any
expectation of what is to be seen).

This orientation towards reality is difficult, or even impossible, to
teach. Either the student is ripe, or is not ready to blossom. The
flower cannot be pulled from the roots towards the sun, it must open in
it's own time, with the right conditions. Just as the flower, so with
the human; we are most beautiful when we are most vulnerable and we
shine out our fullness as we are ready to perish. And the conditions are
not always favourable - Sometimes sunshine, other times wind and rain.
Thriving results from facing both the favourable and unfavourable, and
thankfully life is generous in all circumstances.

My Mom didn't write what she knew, but somehow imparted it to those with
whom she interacted. Her legacy is not in money or in a museum, but felt
in the hearts of those she encountered, who were uplifted by her
contact, understanding and deep permission. Even as a child, I felt
accepted in my imperfection and in my failings. Tenderness was her
wellspring and life offered many occasions for her to tap into her depth
and show deep love.

When life did not offer what she had hoped for, she embodied wisdom even
more fully ... somehow flowing with more grace in the rapids than in
still water, so they say. This is part of my lineage and I hope in this
lifetime to offer full expression to all our ancestors' dreams, knowing
they did not have opportunity to do so. All their aspirations, their
voices, and their fears live on in the cells of my being; may life help
heal their wounds and honour their deepest needs. Death is but a
transition from being seen to being remembered; existence persists and
transcends the boundaries of our perception.

This is a love-note to my Mom, Alice, and to all my ancestors ... I know
you had courageous hearts and led the way to this moment. Thank you and
may we be liberated together.

Originally, secret beings were selected based on known abilities and
areas of expertise that would help the new colony get established and
survive. Though in my case, potential contribution was of course a
mystery. Although I am still not certain, it seems that I am meant to
hear and share messages from life-forms that are not visible/do not
speak to most people.

It was my Mom who helped attune my ears to the messages carried on the
wings of fairies. One early morning, before dawn, when I was about four
years old, she awoke me for our first expedition into the magical
forest. Along the partially moonlit path, beauty and a feeling of
belongingness invited an intuitive trust in the body's ability to
navigate rugged terrain in the absence of full view. As we rarely
experience, or permit to allow unfold in our senses, the third eye can
perceive reality more clearly than the naked eye.

I didn't see them at first, but after a moment of pause in this
beautiful, cozy hollow surrounded by foliage, emerged these tiny flying
beings that are illuminated from the inside. In this moment, I remember
noticing the calmness of my mother, how her face was so gentle and soft.
She did not move, so I remained still. I cannot describe the feeling of
elation that arose as these delightfully mysterious beings appeared and
approached us. I was so captivated, it is as if reality were unfolding
outside of time, or beyond my experience of it.

My mom did not give any instruction, verbal or otherwise, though as we
remained in stillness together immersed in this moment, something truly
magical happened. The fairies whispered in the mist, knowing that our
glimpse of reality is partial and our suffering complete:

"The magic of life dawns in the darkness

Where you are lost and then found

Fully facing that you are no thing

But the very Love that you have sought

Ever expressing eternity

in the spaces between"

Nobody knew, save maybe the fairies, that Alice would not survive long
in the new colony. As it turns out, this expedition/experiment didn't
favour all equally in the end, though I know my Mom would not have made
that the measure of success. She was giant-hearted and offered her best,
even if to her own peril. By this example, she taught me to allow myself
to be vulnerable and to care so much that willingness to completely
surrender is more natural than the will to survive.

After she was gone, sometimes I couldn't tell up from down, and these
were the scariest of days. But I knew what she would tell me ... to
trust the wind, and let it carry me. As it turns out, this was the only
reminder I really needed.

A glint of sparkle, a hint of hope, a whisper of a promise from someone
I love ... and life is alive.

.