"Damn it! We almost had him!" Angelo wasn\'t used to failing. He had
grown up in strict household that worshipped masculinity. His father,
who was now head of the organisation, had been one of the first recruits
to join the gender division when it first started, and he was very proud
when Angelo decided to follow in his footsteps.

"It\'s ok son. We all make mistakes"

"I\'m sorry, sir"

"Now, this may seem like a punishment, but I assure you it\'s not. I
have assigned you a new partner"

"Francis?! Dad, you can\'t be serious"

"LISTEN TO ME. I need someone I can I trust on this one. Everything is
not as it seems. This is a nice easy task where nobody will ask any
questions. which means that you\'ll be free to investigate a top secret,
off the record matter that nobody must know about. You hear me? nobody.
I\'ve been getting orders from above, and at first they reeked of
incompetence, which wasn\'t surprising. You know how much I despise
incompetence, so I started sending reports upstairs, and either
nobody\'s been reading them, or someone is deliberately trying to make
us look bad.

"I\'m sure they\'re just getting lost in the paperwork"

"That\'s what I thought, so I went to talk to my superiors. Trust me,
something\'s up, and I don\'t like it. I have a gut feeling. I think
they\'re trying to shut down the gender police.

"What? but it\'s been so successful?"

"I don\'t know what game they\'re playing at, but I don\'t like, and we
need to know more. I want to be prepared when the hammer drops. We\'re
not gonna let some queer-sympathising terrorists bring down this
respectable institution. We\'ve worked too hard to let them sow seeds of
chaos in the minds of our children. We have to protect our families from
their corrupting ideology. "

"Yes sir"

Angelo wasn\'t exactly sure what was wrong with being queer, in fact
he\'s never met a queer, but he felt a rush of blood in his chest and
his fists clenched whenever he thought about what he would do if he ever
encountered one. Growing up, his father had told him all sorts of
stories of what life was like before the Gender Division cleaned things
up. He wasn\'t going to let society devolve into a bunch of hedonistic
anarchists tearing up the streets.

Angelo got in a shuttle and pondered how he would investigate such a
delicate matter. His father was a master of deception and scheming, but
Angelo favoured candor and honesty. He felt underprepared for this
assignment. He looked at himself in a mirror have his face a few
friendly slaps. "You got this! Project confidence and success."

As Angelo stepped out of the shuttle he realised he was late for the
appointment. He was surprised to see his wife leaving the medical
institute. "what happened?" "Dr Swanson\'s had to leave. Some sort of
medical emergency." "Did they say when he\'d be back?" "Will you take me
home?" "Of course"

#meets queers and reassessed his prejudice

#confronts/betrays his father... How?

#pregnant wife has an intersex child... He wants to assign Male, but she
wants to do nothing. Eventually he changes his mind