If they could hear her thoughts, a cynical observer might have a hard
time deciding whether to describe [[Astoralia]] as a conspiracy theorist or
a hypercondriac, but given that her thoughts were private, to the
outside world she seemed like a dull, meek, nobody. She might have been
sad about all this, if she weren\'t so busy investigating her latest
obsession: the air.

You see, nobody really knows how the air circulation and filtration
system really works, and since she has started wearing a breathing
apparatus of her own design, Astoralia had noticed an astounding
pattern. At first she thought she was going crazy, but as she started
documenting the phenomenon she was baffled by just how precisely the
pattern repeated itself.

She had first designed her breathing apparatus in an attempt to heal a
mysteriously persistent cough she had developed. It was nothing too
serious, but something about it bothered her and she just couldn\'t
leave it alone.

She hadn't formed a solid explanation yet, but it seemed clear to her
that the government was putting something in the air, because as soon as
she started wearing her mask, the cough went away. Not only that, her
memory improved. She started noticing thing she had to have seen before.
The strangest observation was that on certain days of the week, everyone
in her sector of the 53rd floor would act a little strange; it starts
with a slight increase in aggressive behaviour, followed by people
dropping things, impaired motor functions, then most people seem to
enter private spaces and the streets are bare, and every week it\'s the
same thing, and somehow nobody seems to notice or remember.
