---
dg-publish: true
---
*(Created by Sophia Bush Anderson)*

[[Caprina]] squirmed. It had been already 48 hours since labour had begun
and still there is no baby. This is why the rest of the world has
switched to the very efficient and reliable [[Med-bots]] to do the work of
midwives and doctors. "No one has the patience for this shit anymore"
Caprina thought inwardly as she shifted her weight off of her knees and
rocking back onto her toes. Her feet, arms, knees, neck and back were
all aching after hours of constant support. It's tiring work to be
giving your undivided energetic, physical, mental and emotional
attention to one being for hours and hours, no, days on end. Clearly she
was struggling to remain present now, as the 49th hour was creeping in.

The beginning had always started out the same. The birther is calm,
resting in her bubble of excitement, tranquility and love. They are
resting in their goddess glory, aware of the creation energy floating
around them and sending words of love to their bodies and babies.
Usually Caprina will walk in to find them sitting on their birthing
ball, lights dim, positive mantras, meditative music or some other
hypnobirthing crap playing in the background while the birther bounces,
rocks, sways or sits in meditative silence with a small grin on their
face. Caprina's self sacrificing nature made her want to rush in and
apply, soak and oil all of her love and energy onto the birther upon her
first arrival. But as the hours drift on into the night, it makes it
very difficult for Caprina to continue to offer the same level of
support without also feeling the impact on her body and psyche. No one
is there to look after the support, and rightfully so in this space of
sacred creation. However, Caprina has not learned, even years later, how
to return some of that loving energy back onto herself.

Caprina enters the space with care, understanding that it is her
privilege, not right to be present. She goes in generously, giving
massage and acupressure, heat blankets, ice packs and love to the
birthers vibrating body. It is a dangerous thing to attend a birth not
registered with the state's embryo log. All embryo's now, must be
registered so that the state can begin tracking and enhancing the health
and presumably DNA of these new soon to be infants (or at least, that's
what's been going around the rumour mill). Illegal work like this can
get you demoted to below the blackout line. Midwives caught doing their
work since the bill was passed lost everything.

Gone are the days when birthers trusted in their own powers to bring
their babies into this world. Gone are the days when we thought of
babies as intelligent active participants in the birthing process. We
now see them as dormant parasites, growing helplessly until a
sophisticated carefully programmed Med-bot is scheduled to rescue them
from their 9 month sentence in their walled in cocoon. Once you're
registered in the system, there's no escaping it. The Med-bots incessant
twin, the [[Sonno-bot]], is sent to your house and must remain implanted
into the birthers belly button until after the baby is born so as to
send carefully updated analysis of both birther and babies vitals to the
appointed Med-bot who determines the appropriate day and time of
delivery. Perfectly sanitized, sterile packages are delivered to their
doorstep filled with supplements, supplies, and other predetermined
essential baby garbage. The state controls the whole life making
process---well, everything except conception itself, but there are nasty
rumours floating around about plans in place to control conception as
well. Caprina shutters at the thought, aware of what happened on the
\_\_ floor, when the government began their new state mandated family
planning bill, which turned out to be a horrible coy to sterilize half
of the population.

Everything is predetermined and decided by the centre. No birther need
think twice about the birthing process. It is all automated, and
systematized to provide as little inconvenience as possible. After all,
why should humans suffer through the inhumane process of childbirth
since we've evolved so far as to have artificial intelligence determine
the precise duration of gestation for optimal health? There's no
guessing. No more waiting. Humans are taken out of the equation and in
stepped, or more accurately, glided, the Med-bots.

Caprina had been working as a midwitch --- already on the frays of the
birth world when the changes were implemented years ago. This made it
easier for her to slip into the periphery and watch as many of her
friends working within the hospitals and registered with the
certification boards got assimilated into supporting roles for the
Med-bots (or \_\_ as she liked to call them). The changes made Caprina
shudder. But at least she was able to largely continue her work as
before. Her networks and circles were already underground, very separate
from the mainstream at that point. Her networks had gotten smaller over
the years, and there were fewer and fewer mid witches left, many forced
into hiding after the "Pterodactyl incident" 5 years before. Many were
forced down below the [[blackout line]], where the rules weren't as fiercely
upheld. There, the old ways weren't completely wiped out, and you could
find pockets of knoweldgeholders hiding safely in plain sight.

Caprina sighed. Her work here had become tougher too as the medical
propaganda began to infiltrate the subconscious of most birthers on the
planet. Her job was becoming harder and harder as no one in the city
seemed to trust in their abilities to birth anymore, which made her
countless back rubs, hip squeezes and affirmations futile against the
growing doubt brewing in every birthers subconscious. But how could she
blame them? Caprina had yet to bear her own child. Yet still, with
everything happening she felt like it was more important than ever to
settle into the faithful knowing of our bodies intuitive knowledge.

Stiffly, Caprina shifted again onto her knees so she could apply
pressure to the birthers aching back as she squeezed her hip bones so
that her pelvis could open and pressure would be relieved. "just let
this danged baby come out soon" she thought as she worked hard to steady her breath and provide a stable and reassuring presence for this
birther. After all, Caprina's work was only to support when asked and
needed. There was one thing that's for sure, with the option for an
easy, streamlined birth just yards away, it sure made the painful task
of giving all of herself to support another for days on end that much
more draining. Not that Caprina would ever take that option herself, nor
would she ever suggest it to any of her clients. But the ease and
simplicity of it grew very attractive in these light and sleepless hours
of day two of labour. "Babies come when babies are ready" Caprina
whispered out loud. "babies know when to come. And when they are ready
your body will open and welcome this baby into the world".


how does she hide her work from the government?
upper  lowerclass
hides her work from her family
"artist" is her cover story with the government. Also nannies.
Government discovers her secret after she has a baby.
Childbirth complications?
