---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Dugal]] was scoundrel. If he wasn\'t so charming, and had he not been
bestowed by life with access to such deep pockets, he probably would\'ve
been eviscerated out of existence many years ago. It\'s not that he
didn\'t care about people, he has just learnt the wrong life lessons
growing up, and now seemed to find it impossible to shake the notion
that being a cheeky smartass was the only way to make people happy. If
he was more accurate in his readings of people he might have realised
that they weren\'t in fact happy, but merely amused, and that that did
not equate to love or acceptance or belonging.

Alas, Dugal went through life burning bridge after bridge, wondering
what was wrong with people. Initially, he has tried to understand what
he was doing that made people so angry and upset with him, but having
found no common thread between his actions and their reactions, he
resolved that perhaps this is just the way the people are, and continued
to torch his way through society, slowly descending down the social
ladder in a concentric spiral.

At first this seemed like a sustainable solution - engage with folks
until they hate you, and then find someone else - but now that he was
halfway to the blackout line, Dugal was starting to worry that he would
soon have to be dressing down in order to avoid regular beatings by the
more direct, working class residents of the lower echelon.

To be honest, Dugal did not know why they were called the working class,
and he couldn\'t say for sure what set them apart from his own ilk,
having never seen any of them actually working, a sentiment that felt
both derogatory and curious. Dugal had been to the lower levels a few
times for the clubs, and the sex workers. There was something different
about the atmosphere down there. Everything felt more real. More
visceral. Of course, in classic Dugal fashion, everyone quickly learned
not to trust them, and pretty soon they had to accept that they were no
longer welcome in their favourite establishments.
