[[Francis]] arrives at work exactly on time. It’s not that he cares what his boss thinks, but he gets a sick satisfaction from knowing that he can calculate exactly how long it takes to wake up, eat breakfast, scroll the newsfeed, get dressed, take the stairs, walk 13 blocks, swipe an ID card, go through security, take some more stairs, banter with his assistant, and clock in. He’s never told anyone that, because his mother taught him not to tell anyone what he really was.  

Francis slaps on a sunpatch as he makes his way to the daily briefing. He could probably afford to take a few minutes and get some natural sun, but he’d calculated when he first started working here that it would cost fractionally less to just buy the patches and get it over with. 

Francis loves to calculate things. It’s one of the few activities that makes any sense to him. A framework for understanding the world, turning the chaos of human interaction into an orderly, manageable experience. It’s the only thing that makes him feel competent at life. 

Francis slumps into a chair in the briefing room and pretends to be exhausted. He’d realised a while back that detectives who seemed tired got razzed less by the sergeant and had since acquired a pair of sunglasses which he now wore to keep up appearances. While he waited for the latecomers, which were always numerous, he scrolled through some recommended matched which his sunglasses now presented him with. 

Francis wasn’t interested in finding a “partner”, but he’d observed that it made for good conversation, and he treated the whole matchmaking experience as a sort of research project. In his 7 years as detective he had matched a total of 31 times, and proceeded to have 11 dates. None of them went very well because social cues weren’t his forte, but he felt like he was making progress. The data-set was large enough now to make a few loose generalisations. 1, never tell people what you’re thinking or feeling, even if they ask you to. 2, ask open ended questions, and spend most of your time listening. 3, Always say yes to suggested activities even if they don’t interest you. 

A few years ago Francis had found a self-help pamphlet that talked about how to interact with people. It was exactly what he’d been looking for, except when he tried to apply some of the techniques it proved a little challenging. “Find things you have in common”. *crickets chirp*. Francis had a sneaking suspicion that there were others out there like him, but he’d never encountered anyone, and he had no idea how to go looking. He was just reflecting on this idea when he realised that his name was being called. “Francis!” 

Perfect. Nothing says IDGAF like not noticing when the briefing has started. “Partying too hard again?” “No sir” “One day we’re gonna find out where you shake those tail feathers and bring the whole precinct.” The laughter used to bother him because he wasn’t sure if they were laughing at him or with him, but by now he realised that it didn’t really matter. Most of them were assholes anyway. You kinda had to be to work in the Gender division. 

[[Sergeant]]: You know the drill. Assignments on the board. Sign up for what you want. Report back at the end of the week. Francis - see me in my office.

See me in my office? What’s that about? Francis was positive that he hadn’t done anything noteworthy. Why the hell did the serge want to see him in his office? Francis had been in that office a total of 3 times. Once when he’d first been transferred, where he first met Sergeant Smith who threatened to turn him inside out if he caused any trouble. Once after the first briefing when it turned out that he’d been too eager to sign up for a mission and accidentally disrupted the implicit hierarchy that develops in a patriarchal establishment. And last time was when the commissioner was visiting, where he was told to take the day off. 

“Sit down Francis”. A bad omen. “We have a special mission for you”. Oh no. “I was against it, but there’s nobody else on the force who could pull it off.” Is that a compliment? “We’re sending you undercover.” “Undercover?!” “I’m not gonna lie. It’s a dangerous mission” dangerous?! “But you’re the only one weird enough that you might actually be able to blend in”. Francis had known a day like this was come. “We’re sending you after the big fish” He was prepared. “You’ll be investigating his excellency, the prince of Q” He reached into his pocket and pulled out a letter. “And before you think of handing me that resignation letter I must warn you that any refusal to take on this assignment will be deemed an admission of guilt and considered treason.

“Shut the door”. Francis leaves the office flabbergasted. The prince of Q? He was not ready for this. This was supposed to be a nice easy desk job. Francis wondered who they would be assigned as a partner.

#plotoutline discovers they're queer and turn between duty and identity