---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Gvespa]] would have been a prolific maker were it not for their crippling
indecision and anxiety. There was so much they wanted to create, so many
ripe ideas, buried under a blanket of despair and self loathing. It
wasn't that they didn't know how to manifest their desires (they were a
venerable warehouse of knowledge), nor that they lacked the motivation
to create, it's just that at some point in their life they had learned
that inspiration leads to suffering, internalized it so deeply that now
their body just automatically seemed to shut down any time they had a
good idea. No, not inspiration. Wanting. For you see, deep down, they
wanted so badly to create, to express themselves, to tell the stories of
their life, and a lifetime of failure had compounded into a self doubt
that can only be described as a tragedy. It's a crime that humanity was
deprived of the brilliance that Gvespa had to offer. Perhaps it was just
patience they were lacking, or the ability to focus. You know, it's hard
to say why Gvespa was struggling. They often wondered that themselves.

But Gvespa was not one to give up trying. They stared at the largely
blank page that sat in front of them and reread the same line for the
15th time.

'Just like everyone I know, I was born.'

"Poetic", they thought out loud. Where better to start than at the
beginning. Well, actually, lots of places. But you have to start
somewhere. Or maybe you don't. Maybe you don't have to write anything at all. Who's gonna read it anyway?

Gvespa had gotten pretty good at catching thought patterns like that
early on. Unfortunately, putting a stop to them proved more challenging.
They were like a poison, releasing an unstoppable ennui. Indeed, already
Gvespa could see themselves turning off the screen and curling up in
bed.