Johnson stared blankly at the photograph on his desk. There weren't many
things that he and Oster saw eye to eye on, but they'd somehow managed
to maintain a professional relationship for 43 years. Johnson had just
become a lawyer around the time that Oster, who didn't trust anyone,
first discovered the secret behind the SunPatch technology, and it\'s
hard to imagine how the 43 years that followed bright them here.

That Oster was a genius was undoubtable, but even Johnson was unable to
predict this twist of fate. Despite his entirely unexpected
assassination, Oster had left him with very detailed instructions on how
to manage the estate, instructions that laid out the next 35 years in
minute detailed and accounting for what seemed like every possible and
unpredictably turn of events. Johnson could hear that raspy voice
hovering over his shoulder, "don\'t forget, reports due on the 21st".
Poor Oster. He really thought he could overhaul the constitution, but he
must\'ve ruffled the wrong feathers. Johnson didn\'t know what went
wrong, mostly because he didn\'t need to.

Johnson categorically avoided the news. The media couldn\'t be trusted,
and there was very little information that was at all necessary for a
good life. He\'d decided way back. Made him a happier man. More time to
spend with his daughter.

The phone rings. Johnson is unsurprised to hear Leanne on the other end.
They\'d always had a bit of a telepathic connection; whenever one
thought of the other, the other would call.

Leanne: daddy I need a favor.

Johnson: how are you honey?

Leanne: I\'m good. I need the keys to suncave 3.

Johnson: what for?

Leanne: I just need to get away for a bit

Johnson: ok

Leanne: and if you hear any rumors about me they\'re all lies. Well, not
all of them. But don\'t believe everything you hear.

Johnson: what am I going to hear?

Leanne: you don\'t want to hear it from me.

Johnson: ok. I\'ll send Taylor over to look after you

Leanne: No! I need alone time.

#Johnson stuck enacting Oster\'s will for the rest of his life,

#has to give up his integrity to protect his daughter.