---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Jozahn]] stood on the precipice of life and death. Stood is the strong
word. They had been balancing for months on a tightrope that seemed to
infinity extend into an abyss as they traversed the treacherous waters
of a political landscape that shifted like quicksand, and having
momentarily passed out and lost their balance they now found themselves
crawling, nay, hanging on for dear life, as the metaphorical ropes
started to tear through the final layers of their deeply calloused hand.

Jozahn loved metaphors. It was the only way they could make sense of a
world that seemed to relentlessly invalidate every essence of their
being. From the outside their life looked fine. Almost normal. They
breathed, they worked, they feigned interest in the mundane socializings
that society had decreed the norm. Without the metaphors, how could they
explain to themselves, let alone anybody else, the overwhelming dread
that threatened to explode at a moments notice from every orifice?
Jozahn wondered how many orifices they had. Did the pores in their skin
count as orifices? They started visualizing a bright light exploding out
of every hole in their body and simultaneous eviscerating them and
transforming them into a being of love and light, floating higher and
higher into the sky, but somehow tethered like a kite. And now something
was pulling them down. A light tugging at the ankle sleeve. Jozahn
wished they'd stop. "Let me go" he whispered.

"Hello? Jozahn? Are you awake?" The tugging at the ankle turned out to
be an artifact of "real life", as Jozahn liked to call their waking
life, replete with air quotes and bitter aftertastes. It was so rare to
find compatriots who appreciated their sardonic outlook on life, so
Jozahn had learned to keep their mouth shut. Alas, memory is a twisted
fucker, replaying all your worst nightmares on repeat, and waking the
gremlins of self doubt and alienation so that they may join in the non
consensual penetration of your most vulnerable brainholes. All that to
say, Jozahn was dealing with some shamepain, and was feeling
particularly bitter about it today. A few deep breaths reminded them
that healing is a slow, non-linear process, and that facing the gremlins
is bringing Jozahn one step closer to inner-peace. That's all they
really wanted. Inner-peace.

"Hey!" Their eyes snapped open to reveal [[Calendula]] standing over their
chair. "Come on, let's go" "where are we going?" "You're funny. Tuck
your shirt in. Come on." Jozahn drowsily fumbled around in a futile
attempt to compose themselves as Calendula practically dragged them out
the door. \*A meeting? Or maybe a special event? Was I supposed to be
somewhere?\* Jozahn resigned themselves to figuring it out as they went,
winging their way through most of life's meagre offerings. It wasn't
that they were lazy or unorganised, they had just reached a point where
it felt impossible to care. None of it seemed to matter. Jozahn yearned
for a deeper meaning. Something that would ignite the wonder and magic
that they remembered from childhood storytimes. What happened? Where did that go? Jozahn reached for a memory that didn't exist, hoping to
pinpoint the very moment where that sense of enchantment was lost so
that they could undo the breaking changes and upload the hotfix to patch
the error.

Jozahn found themselves in front of a terminal, typing lines of
scrolling code. That explains the metaphor shift. \*You'd think by now
they'd have figured out a better [[software-brain interface]] but I guess
old habits die hard. Calendula was watching over their shoulder,
grinning like a waterbear winning a marathon against death. They had
made it their temporary life mission to help Jozahn get out of the hole
they refused to stop digging themselves. It amazed them how Jozahn was
able to perform all these impressive feats of technology with seemingly
only one foot in the sobering world they jokingly called "reality". It
was hard to tell if Calendula wanted to BE jozahn, or be "with" them,
whatever that means. Either way, it seemed like they were acing this job
interview, and might finally get out of the toxic wastehole that was
[[Rainforest Inc]], a deceptively non-rainforest-related enterprise.

Calendula was endlessly grateful for the fateful day when they had first
been assigned to Jozahn. The idea of being stuck with a work-partner for
life had seemed like a death sentence at the time, and Jozahn was about
as disappointing a partner as a young Calendula could have imagined; a
weirdo, with an odd sense of humour, and a permanently patronizing tone
of silence, who didn't seem to possess an ounce of compassion or
understanding. Calendula had cursed the sorting algorithms that thrust
them together. Ironically, a shared disdain for the sorting algorithms
was what helped them overcome their differences and was the beginning of a very fruitful and lucrative career in "summer time under a palm tree"
levels of shady dealing. Calendula handled all the people stuff, and
Jozahn made the magic happen.

Jozahn really was a magician. There were so many things they could do
well, that they couldn't remember how they'd learned some of them. It's
a shame that despite acquiring so many niche skills, they seemed somehow
unable to internalise some of the basic survival ones. They reluctantly
thanked their lucky stars for a work-partner as stable and competent as
Calendula. It was difficult for Jozahn to accept defeat, especially in
the face of such a mundane task as "understanding people", but if they
were going to fail, there was nobody they would rather have picking up
their slack than Calendula. There were feelings there that Jozahn didn't
understand; A deep attraction that transcended the mundane. Calendula
wasn't just another node in a sea of endless terminals. They were a
person. A spirit. And life had brought them together for some greater
purpose yet to be defined. Jozahn was intending to share these feelings
with Calendula, but somehow over the years, they'd never found the right
words. Some day.
