---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Kali-Sol]] rifled through the dossiers before him, dismayed by what he was
learning. He couldn't believe his eyes. All the deepest secrets of the
Soli-Sola lay before him, and each one he read was more horrible than
the last. He had been dreaming of this day since he was first introduced
to the priesthood, thinking he would learn the most profound secrets of
the universe. For years he observed all the teachings of the sacred
texts, obeyed every instruction that came down the hierarchy, lived a
pious life, and now here he was, realising everything he stood for was a
lie. He was complicit in a mass deception, and now there was nothing he
could do about it. He reflected on all the orders he had passed down the
chain of command, wondering how many people's lives he had ruined.

A buzzing on his wrist alerted Kali-Sol that it was time to enter the
chamber, his first time on the council as an archpriest. He donned his
regalia and locked his quarters as he left, trying not to crumble under
the weight of his disillusionment. "What if we all feel the same way,
and we just need someone to help us talk about it?" he hoped, grasping
at straws. He tried to remember all the people he'd helped as a
priestling. "Maybe we had a net positive effect?" No part of him
actually believed that. As he approached the chamber, two stoich looking
clerks got up to open the doors. "Soli" they whispered in unison. "Sola"
rolled off his tongue. It was strange how natural it felt to be on this
side of the salute.

Inside, the chamber was surprisingly modest: 9 wooden chairs, and a
holodesk. Kali-Sol was the last to arrive. He was surprised to be
greeted by 8 warm smiles. He had pictured something a little more
formal, a little more sterile.

"Welcome Kali-Sol. Thank you for joining us"
