Mickey sat in the cold metal chair and waited. They were in trouble. In
their heart they knew this day would come, but it seemed impossible to
accept the reality of this situation. So many times they had escaped
disaster by the skin of their teeth, but this time was different. There
was nobody to bail them out now that the Prince of Q had gone dark.

Mickey had joined the resistance straight outta school. Down here
everybody hears whispers of a resistance, but it was only the cleverest,
most dedicated acolytes that ever find the temple. Mickey was the
youngest initiate ever to become an agent of change.

Mickey\'s mother always marveled at what a miracle they were. "They told
me you were going die in childbirth. They couldn\'t believe it when you
came out breathing. You must have a hell of a Guardian Angel watching
over you."

Perhaps it was this repeated sentiment that drove Mickey to sign up for
all the most dangerous tasks without a second thought. Blinds faith that
Gods and Angels would shield them from destruction. For years it seemed
to work a charm, but then they meet the Prince of Q and that\'s when it
all came undone. When you reach the top and see the bigger picture life
takes on a different shade, and nothing is the same again.

A muscular man enters the interrogation room. Mickey is simultaneously
aroused and afraid of this specimens overflowing masculinity. "Look. We
caught you red-handed. There\'s no point denying it. Why don\'t you just
help us get to the bottom of this, and I\'ll make sure you won\'t have
to face the circuitry?

Mickie wasnt a snitch, but they knew that with the circuitry the gender
police could force them to do or say anything it wanted, so they did the
only thing left. They bit their tooth and swallowed the amnesia pills.

#starts working for the gender division after losing memory.

#their body remembers things, so they start betraying their friends
accidentally

#regains memory after sleeping with Leanne, who they were in love with
before memory loss. Almost turns her in, but goes rogue at the last
minute.
