---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Mismar]] sat at their desk drowning in a pit of despair. How had things
become so messed up? It was only a few little mistakes, but somehow they
had snowballed into a catastrophe. Of course, it wasn't really a
catastrophe. Nobody was going to die or anything like that. Hopefully.
So what if the elevators stopped working for a day or two?

Mismar had been trying to talk themselves out of a panic attack since
the moment they had realised what had happened, but the anxiety came in
waves, and their brain was going in circles. One extra person taking a
sick day, a shipping delay, a spilled cup of coffee, who could possibly
have caught the chain of effect that rippled out from these mild
disturbances? And now the whole city would be furious, and it was all
Mismar's fault. Of course, it wasn't really. But that's not how the
public would see it.

Mismar clicked their pen nuerotically as they stared into the distance.
They tried to problem-solve again, despite realizing the futility of
such a task. What if they went talked to head office and requested an
emergency staffing transfer? It would take at least 50 skilled
technicians to get this beast back on track, and most departments could
spare one or two on a good day. What if they alerted the news stations
and called a state of emergency? That would be pandamonium. And it
wasn't really an emergency. Yet.

Mismar never should've taken the job. They loved the challenge, but the
responsibility was too much. Nobody should have that much
responsibility. Its very bad for your health knowing that you could be
responsible for the extinction of the human race.
