---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Paglio]]'s job to was to care for the plants. Well, not quite.
Technically their job was to maintain the robots that keep the plants
alive, but paglio didn't like the idea of living creatures being
treated like a math equation, so they expanded their duties to include
talking to the plants, touching them, loving them.

In the olden days, before the city was constructed, plants has been a
crucial part of the human ecosystem, generating food, and converting
carbon dioxide into oxygen, and they spoke to each other through an
underground network of roots and living organism called mycelium. Paglio
had read that in an illegal history book they had found in an antique
store once.

Nowadays plants were a luxury item on the upper floors, a relic from
another time, a decoration, a display of wealth. Nobody was really sure
how food or oxygen was created anymore. None of the technology really
made any sense. It was a well guarded state secret, and nobody was
allowed to have all the pieces of the puzzle. Paglio hated feeling like
a cog in the machine; they knew how to repair these specific robots that
tended to the plants, and some of the skills were probably transferable,
but they had never had a chance to apply them to anything else.

Paglio had a knack for finding illegal books and their brain was full of
revolutionary ideas. They wondered how everyone was so ok with the
status quo. Some days they just wanted to scream at people in the street
"wake up sheeple!". Paglio had not yet found anyone who shared their
feelings, at least nobody who admitted to it. It was a lonely way to
move through life, but at least they had the trees.

Paglio watched as [[Ingar]] recited a sonnet to a magnolia tree. It made
them chuckle. What a silly little robot they'd made. If anyone found
out Paglio was writing rogue code there would be big trouble, but nobody
cared about some plant nursing robot and paglio rarely interacted with
people. This particular floor lay empty most of the time, which
frustrated Paglio to no end, who imagined the joy it could bring to
someone in a lower floor. Someday, Paglio would venture down below and
bring up a hoard of hungry, sun-starved humans to enjoy the forrest on
the third floor. Paglio pictured the smile on their face as they got
dragged away by the police.
