---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Putstog]] was a grump. It wasn't always like that, but years of
disappointments had hardened him into a curmudgeonly fella, which most
people would have found humorous on account of his short stature, except
that he was, among other things, responsible for overseeing the city's
entire tech support, and god help you if your apartment was
malfunctioning and you had chided Putstog.

Putstog had climbed the corporate ladder by accident, being in the wrong
place at the wrong time. He had never wanted more responsibility, and he
certainly didn't crave power, although somehow that didn't prevent him
from misusing it on seemingly random occasions. Putstog resented that
most people on his floor got away with having cushy government jobs that
required very little actual effort, while he had to deal with people.
Constantly.

In his younger days, Putstog had loved fixing things. He would tinker
with all sorts of random objects. He was an artist. He would make
incredible machines and toys and they were full of joy and life. He
would've been happy tinker his whole life, but his father wanted more
for him. He kept nudging him toward mediocre opportunities that Putstog
felt ambivalent about, and maybe that would've continued indefinitely if
it had not been for the death of his son.

Putstog was a changed man after that. Nothing quite seemed to make
sense. After stewing in a state of depression for a short eternity,
Putstog threw himself into government work as way to distract himself
from the incurable void that had formed in his heart.
