---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Sahdie]] awoke each day with a distinct sense of gratitude. After spending
the first 17 years of their life in a [[refugee camp]], Sahdie wasn't
prepared to let a single moment go unappreciated. They started each day
with half an hour of [[gene therapy]] to adapt to new Sun conditions.

While those living in the city limits struggled to get enough sunlight,
the folks beyond the city walls faced a different challenge. Out there,
the Sun was so harsh and powerful that you couldn't escape it. In turn,
people started developing allergies and mutations that left them with
painful [[sunspots]] all over their bodies.

The gene therapy wasn't much better, by they assured him that after a
few weeks they'd be able to take in fresh sunlight without any pain.
Sahdie wondered what they put in that cream, and how the needles knew
where to go, but he figured he had the rest of his life to learn about
that, so instead he put on some music and disassociated to the sweet
sound of mountain music. He wasn't sure why it was called mountain
music, but it reminded him of his family.

Sahdie's oma had taught him all the sacred rhythms of their ancestors.
Not many people alive had that kind of living memory. Of course, your
body carries all your history locked inside of you, but few could access
it so readily as Sahdie. That's probably why they let him out of the
refugee camp so young.

He was thrust from his reverie by the arhythmic vibrations of an
incoming call. "Yes? I am he. A what? What is that? 15 minutes? Should I
bring anything? Hello?"

Adrenaline coursed through Sahdie's veins. Nothing to do with the
gender police could lead to anything good. The man on the phone said it
was a routine screening for newcomers, but Sahdie had their doubts.

They searched their room for anything that could upset the authorities,
and were alarmed to hear the door buzz so soon. That was the shortest 15
minutes in history, probably because barely a minute had passed. 3 armed
men invaded his home and scrutinised his meagre existence, no object
left unturned. The largest of the three integrated Sahdie with such
viciousness that one might correctly assume that he didn't want them
here. Xenophobia was thriving in Paradise.

Sahdie noticed that one of the men was not like the other. He handled
Sahdie's delicate instruments and sentimental artifacts with care, and
maybe Sahdie was imagining this, but he didn't seem to be doing a very
thorough job of inspecting the possessions.

Suddenly, Sahdie's heart sank. They remembered the necklace in the back
of the bedside drawer that [[Charlie]] had told them to dispose of. He'd
been struggling to part with it, as it was his only memory of his
mother, and now it was going to ruin everything. It seemed like the
interrogator could read their mind or something because he turned around
and barked "check everything again".

Miraculously the 3 brutes discovered nothing, and soon departed. Sahdie
rushed to the drawer and was astonished to discover that the necklace
was gone. Had they found it and just not said anything? Were they just
playing mind games? Sahdie took a deep breath. No point worrying. They
sat back in the chair and let the needle machine do it's work and the
mountain music fill their soul.

...teaches revolutionaries the rhythms of his ancestors.

...rhythms unlock trauma and memories in your body. Help Leanne and
Mickey. Help inspire Alara to see their place in the universe, reconnect
with nature,

...starts an underground tree sanctuary, first of its kind in the city.