


**DR CALIMARINO**

As doctor Joseph Calamarino washed the blood off his hands he pondered
what had gone wrong. They had often been called a sociopath, but they
couldn\'t really understand why. They weren\'t trying to hurt anyone.
They were upfront about the risks associated with the procedure. Nobody
down here does anything like this. They had read every resource they
could find on the topic. They weren\'t intentionally causing harm.

Joseph triple checked all the data. The blood types matched. The
antibodies seemed to react as expected. There were no traces of
infection. It just didn\'t make sense. This was the third one to reject
the procedure. If he could just figure this out, he could really make a
difference in people\'s lives. That\'s what people didn\'t get. He was
just trying to make a difference. A few ruined lives to save thousands?
Totally worth it.

Doctor Calimarino thought of the freezer dinner that awaited him when he
got home and wondered why he couldn\'t figure out how to make friends
anymore. Maybe it was his age? Or money? Joseph was considerably wealthy
for someone living on the lower levels, in fact he could probably afford
to live high enough to be above the blackout line and maybe own a
suncave of his own, but something compelled him to remain down here.

Joseph had made his small fortune by running venues. He had a knack for
numbers and a distinct disinterest in aesthetic that allowed him to hand
creative control to others, and he happened to get incredibly lucky with
his first selection.

It wasn\'t his intention to create the most infamous queer venue in the
entire city, but his lack of prejudice and relative ignorance of the
politics of the time meant that he took a chance on the most unlikely
people. The venue quickly attracted liberal thinkers and
revolutionaries, and, eventually, a wealthy patron who refused to share
their identity. However, secrets don\'t last very long down here, and
the masses soon started calling it "the Quinn" after the Prince of Q
himself.

#on the spectrum

#gets tried for treason... Accused of killing the Prince of Q (who
isn\'t dead, just post op)

#everyone turns on them except Hoeven and family

#meets Swanson who helps them understand what they\'re doing with the
surgeries

**HOEVEN**

Hoeven was possibly the most respected artist of this generation. Their
work explored issues of connection and isolation, and they were one of
the few artists whose work transcended class and race and gender. As
they prepared to go on stage for a lecture on life and art below the
blackout line, they couldn\'t help but reflect on their humble
beginnings. If it hadn\'t been for their dear friend Joseph, they may
never have pursued art at all.

They wondered if Jo Cam considered them a friend. They hadn\'t seen each
other for almost a year, and Hoeven could never really tell what Joseph
was feeling. They resolved to visit him the minute they got a chance.

The applause from the auditorium signaled that it was time to head
onstage. Hoeven was a superstar, but they couldn\'t decide if they
enjoyed all this attention, or if they\'d prefer to run away and live in
a forest. Being famous made it really difficult to make art about human
connection. You couldn\'t just show up and blend in. Every interaction
has a layer of doubt where you can never be sure if someone is being
real with you or just starstruck.

"I know these talks normally start with the artist telling about
themselves, but I suppose you\'ve all read my autobiography? Professor
Dean tells me it\'s assigned reading? So I\'m just gonna shuffle things
up and start with questions. Do you have any questions? Yes, you, with
orange scarf "

"what\'s life like, you know, down there?"

"what? Go read the autobiography. Anyone else? Blue bag, 3rd row"

"Jessica. How do feel that your success has affected the people in your
community, and do you feel responsible for any of the harm caused?"

"I don\'t have a community. The people I grew up with always laughed at
me before I was famous, and resent me now that I\'m rolling in the
dough, so to speak. My mother was the only one who ever made me feel
supported growing up. But to answer your question more broadly, I think
the whole thing has attracted poverty pimps who developed a tourism
industry which simultaneously feeds and exploits anyone who\'s ever
associated with me, and overall I\'d say their lives are better off, but
it\'s not really my place to judge, and I\'m sure there are many who are
angry and offended by it all. Very good question. Important to be
thinking about it, but hard to have any impact on the matter."

"what about Joseph Camilleri?"

"What about him?"

"Isn\'t he part of your community? Don\'t you feel like you\'ve left him
behind? Do you even know how he\'s doing?"

"Yes. I visit him periodically"

"Are you aware of the impact your departure has had on him?"

"Sorry, do you know him personally?"

"I\'m his niece"

"i wasn\'t aware he had a niece"

"For someone who cites him as a close friend and influence, you don\'t
seem to know much about him"

"How did you end up here?"

"You\'re not the only one transcends boundaries"

#struggles to remain politically neutral, and caves after JoCam goes on
trial.

#develops a deep relationship with Jessica who is always pushing them to
be more political

\#

**JESSICA**

Jessica was so embarrassed. She didn\'t know what had come over her.
Hoeven was an idol of hers, and she hadnt meant to grill him in front of
all those people. She didn\'t even realise she felt so strongly about
it. And she totally understood where they were coming from. She too had
left behind her community. Maybe it was guilt that she was feeling.

"I\'m so sorry! I don\'t know what I was thinking. Of course you don\'t
know about me, he never talks about himself, so of course he didn\'t
tell you who I was, and of course you left, the place is a shithole, I
left it too, and I miss my friends sometimes, but maybe when I\'ve made
it here I can go back and help them, but also I don\'t want to be some
savior character, and maybe other people done want anything to change
but I just couldn\'t stand it and I hope they do because I have so many
ideas and I really think that I could help, and I\'m rambling. I\'m just
so embarrassed. I\'m really big fan. "

"do you wanna go visit him with me?"

"Sorry, what? When?"

"Tonight. We can surprise him. We can bring dinner and save him from
those horrible freezer meals he\'s always buying."

"They\'re horrible. We always had to eat them whenever we went to visit
because it\'s all he knows how to cook"

"That\'s actually not true. I once saw him throw together an omelette!
Never seen anything like it. I guess he watched a video or something,
was trying to impress someone."

"Unbelievable"

"Hold on, I just gotta call my agent. Charlie? Hello. I need you to get
me out of all my commitments for the rest of today and probably tomorrow
too. I don\'t care. Just do it"

#becomes an investigative journalist and does dangerous political work
anonymously

#eventually collaborates with HOEVEN to do a big piece that helps bring
down the government

#discovers that people are being used as solar panels

**CHARLIE**

Charlie was not well suited for working with artists. She could schmooze
the face off a potential investor, but artists were a particular kind of
delicate flower that pushed all her buttons, and not in a good way.

She had agreed to take on Hoeven as a favour to a friend, who had
discovered them before they were big, and despite the enormous success
that had come of it, she sometimes missed the good old days when she
could work exclusively with the people she cared about. She\'d started
as a refugee lawyer and only became an agent when she realised there was
a loophole that allowed her to sponsor people if she could prove that
they would contribute significantly to the artistic landscape of the
nation, and while it\'s true that the income Hoeven brought in was the
only reason she was able to continue operating, she couldn\'t help
resent the work she had to do for them.

Poor Sahdie was sitting in the waiting room, and now she would have to
tell him that she had to reschedule their appointment. Of course he
wouldn\'t mind, he was the most grateful human she\'s ever met, but the
principle of it pissed her off. Stupid bigshots swooping in and causing
havoc whenever they felt like it.

#connects alara and eventually believes in her. Helps her use find
loopholes to escape the city and start a refugee sanctuary outside the
city.

**SAHDIE**

Sahdie awoke each day with a distinct sense of gratitude. After spending
the first 17 years of their life in a refugee camp, Sahdie wasn\'t
prepared to let a single moment go unappreciated. They started each day
with half an hour of gene therapy to adapt to new Sun conditions.

While those living in the city limits struggled to get enough sunlight,
the folks beyond the city walls faced a different challenge. Out there,
the Sun was so harsh and powerful that you couldn\'t escape it. In turn,
people started developing allergies and mutations that left them with
painful sunspots all over their bodies.

The gene therapy wasn\'t much better, by they assured him that after a
few weeks they\'d be able to take in fresh sunlight without any pain.
Sahdie wondered what they put in that cream, and how the needles knew
where to go, but he figured he had the rest of his life to learn about
that, so instead he put on some music and disassociated to the sweet
sound of mountain music. He wasn\'t sure why it was called mountain
music, but it reminded him of his family.

Sahdie\'s oma had taught him all the sacred rhythms of their ancestors.
Not many people alive had that kind of living memory. Of course, your
body carries all your history locked inside of you, but few could access
it so readily as Sahdie. That\'s probably why they let him out of the
refugee camp so young.

He was thrust from his reverie by the arhythmic vibrations of an
incoming call. "Yes? I am he. A what? What is that? 15 minutes? Should I
bring anything? Hello?"

Adrenaline coursed through Sahdie\'s veins. Nothing to do with the
gender police could lead to anything good. The man on the phone said it
was a routine screening for newcomers, but Sahdie had their doubts.

They searched their room for anything that could upset the authorities,
and were alarmed to hear the door buzz so soon. That was the shortest 15
minutes in history, probably because barely a minute had passed. 3 armed
men invaded his home and scrutinised his meagre existence, no object
left unturned. The largest of the three integrated Sahdie with such
viciousness that one might correctly assume that he didn\'t want them
here. Xenophobia was thriving in Paradise.

Sahdie noticed that one of the men was not like the other. He handled
Sahdie\'s delicate instruments and sentimental artifacts with care, and
maybe Sahdie was imagining this, but he didn\'t seem to be doing a very
thorough job of inspecting the possessions.

Suddenly, Sahdie\'s heart sank. They remembered the necklace in the back
of the bedside drawer that Charlie had told them to dispose of. He\'d
been struggling to part with it, as it was his only memory of his
mother, and now it was going to ruin everything. It seemed like the
interrogator could read their mind or something because he turned around
and barked "check everything again".

Miraculously the 3 brutes discovered nothing, and soon departed. Sahdie
rushed to the drawer and was astonished to discover that the necklace
was gone. Had they found it and just not said anything? Were they just
playing mind games? Sahdie took a deep breath. No point worrying. They
sat back in the chair and let the needle machine do it\'s work and the
mountain music fill their soul.

#teaches revolutionaries the rhythms of his ancestors.

#rhythms unlock trauma and memories in your body. Help Leanne and
Mickey. Help inspire Alara to see their place in the universe, reconnect
with nature,

#starts an underground tree sanctuary, first of its kind in the city.

**LASKA**

As she rode in the back of the van, Laska fiddled with the necklace in
her pocket. What a foolish risk to take. Coming to work for the gender
police everyday masquerading as a man was dangerous enough, if they
found out she was helping refugees god knows what they\'d do to her.

Laska had joined the force because they offered to pay her university
tuition, which she couldn\'t afford after losing her scholarship. At
least that\'s what she told people if they asked. The real reason she
signed up was because she got caught doing something she wasn\'t
supposed to, and the Dean of the university, who knew her father and was
an overall kind and decent human, devised a plan that would save her
from being sentenced to gender rehabilitation. All she had to do was
lie, and say that the reason she was going around presenting like a
woman was because she was undercover, trying to bait other queers, and
not in fact as an act of protest.

Normally this kind of last ditch attempt fell on deaf ears, but with the
Dean vouching for her she got a pardon and a fast track scholarship to
the gender academy. Of course, she\'s been under heavy scrutiny ever
since, but after her "heroic arrest" last year things seemed like they
might be calming down.

#swanson's daughter

#becomes a spy for the revolutionaries?

**DEAN JEFFERSON**

Dean Jefferson was getting too old for this job. He would have retired
years ago, but every year there seemed to be some catastrophic reason
that he just had to stay for one more year. First it was corruption,
then the ridiculous gender laws, then student revolts. One year the
board of directors couldn\'t find an appropriate replacement, another
year the competition was so fierce that they were worried about
insurgency.

Dean didn\'t care about the institution, but he felt a responsibility to
the students. So many bright minds had walked these halls and gone on to
change the world. A disruption to their education could have denied
humanity a Lisgard, or a Tennerman, or a Luxford, or a Jonas. We may
have even gone extinct.

As he stared at the student horde he wondered what this year\'s cohort
would bring. Every year Jefferson selected 10 of the brightest minds to
join a secret society he had started when he was a student. In essence
it was a think tank designed to transcend the limitations of what was
accepted as possible. He hoped that the brilliant minds of tomorrow
could break the shackles of today. That was his motto.

This year he had gone further than ever before. As an experiment, he had
gone to the lower levels to scout Zoli, the most left of center thinker
he could find. It was a risky decision that could really backfire, but
he was so sick of the status quo that sometimes a little trouble seemed
better than nothing.

**ZOLI**

Zoli felt out of place in such a prestigious establishment. They\'d
never been above the blackout line, let alone in the university
district. They still weren\'t quite sure what they were doing here. One
minute they were hacking together random scraps of biotech debris, the
next some clown with a briefcase was offering them a scholarship to some
fancy school.

At first Zoli said no. They had no business up there with the ignorant
"elite". Everyone they cared about lived down here, and they weren\'t
about to leave them all behind. It was something that Marietta said that
convinced them to go. Marietta was Zoli\'s mother. "Go" she said "and
learn everything they can teach you. Everything there is to know. And
then you come back, you hear me? Come back, and use that knowledge to
help me turn this place around."

Since they were a preteen, Zoli had worked at Plaza, Marietta\'s
"everything" store that sold everything from food to furniture to
various repair services, and sometimes doubled as a hostel / sports bar
/ multipurpose room rental. It was the bane of their existence, and Zoli
was just about ready to run away from home when they discovered the
revolutionaries, who needed a place to meet, and offered a new
perspective on life flush with a sense of community and a reason to wake
up each morning. It was this commradery that Zoli was thinking about
when they decided to go to university.

If they could just learn the secrets behind the lifesustaining
technology that kept this city alive, they could break away and start
something new. A haven for anyone who has fallen through the cracks, or
been abused by the system. It was a long shot, but it was so much more
than they could do stuck down here.

**MARIETTA**

When she first found out, Marietta didn\'t like that Zoli was hanging
with the revolutionaries. It was dangerous, and she was worried that
they would follow in their father\'s footsteps. She didn\'t want to
mourn another unnecessary death. That\'s part of why she made them work
so much in the store. She thought that maybe if they kept busy they
wouldn\'t get distracted with knoble causes and foolhardy nonsense.

Marietta had grown up just above the blackout line, and much to the
chagrin of her parents she fell in love with an ambitious do-gooder who
sucked her down the rabbithole and when she smiled as she remembered the
passion with which they would stay up late nights, organising, secret
meetings. In some ways, she was excited for Zoli. But as a mother, she
was worried. She reminded herself that Zoli was an adult and had to make
their own decisions.

Now that Zoli was leaving, she figured maybe it was time to sell the
shop. Maybe she could go stay with her parents. She\'d never told Zoli
where she came from. Down here information like that could get you in
ostracized, or worse. She wondered how she would explain everything..

**HOSKAR AND TULI**

Hoskar and Tuli had run their small museum together for 21 years.
Everyone who visited thought they were the cutest little elderly couple,
which is probably the reason they were able to sell so much merchandise.
They were earning enough to move the entire operation up a few levels,
but this museum had been in Tuli\'s family for 7 generations, and she
wasn\'t prepared to leave it behind. In fact there was an old family
motto that she never understood that her mother would repeat whenever
she talked about leaving. "the museum holds the keys to the city, and we
must hold the keys to the museum."

In her childhood Tuli had played many games with her parents which
growing up she realised were designed to teach her rituals, with sacred
objects and chanted mantras. There was a lot of mythology surrounding
this museum. They said it was created by one of the 4 founding fathers
of Q, but she wasn\'t sure whether it was Luxford or Jonas.

She didn\'t really know what any of it meant or why it was so important,
which is probably why she only half-life heartedly related it all to
Marietta growing up. She was a little sad about it now, imagining the
museum shutting down, but she had no other kids, and Marietta had left
this life behind. She briefly considered selling it, but the
superstitions felt too ominous to ignore.

As she wandered the Lisgard and Tennerman exhibits she wondered again
how this all started. Did someone just sit down one day and make up a
bunch of myths and superstitions? Or did they build up gradually? Was
she supposed to add to the Canon? And of course there was that thought
that sent tingles up her spine that felt so right but couldn\'t possibly
be true: what if it was all real? What if this museum really was a
temple that held all the secrets of the city? She had always assumed
that it was a metaphor, but something in her stirred at the thought that
might really be a descendant of the great Luxford or Jonas, both!

She looked at the plaques as she walked past them: "175 years ago, the
great Lisgard wrote the white paper that definitely predicted crucial
elements of the climate Apocalypse. In the years that followed, as the
predictions started coming true, #insert description of predictions# and
the warning signs exploded beyond a doubt, a movement developed. Lisgard
was approached by a very talented young individual who has a different
vision for the future."

A school group was passing through the next chamber, and a sweet voice
read out the text: "Tennerman was a young college graduate with a big
head and a brain to match. They were an engineer, and an architect, with
a big picture plan that would save humanity from impending doom"

#a school group comes through with Angelo\'s wife as teacher and a kid
character?

#Their museum is generations old, and actually contains the secrets to
the tech, which were supposed to be for the people, but was buried by
the corporations so that they could profit

#tuli is dying, wonders who will look after the museum when she's gone

#they meet their grandkid Zoli who is trying to find the secrets

**ANGELICA**

Angelica beamed as she looked at her gaggle of napping little ones.
Angelica loved kids. She couldn\'t believe that she was about to have
her own. She\'d been dreaming of this since she was 10. Everything in
her life was leading up to this moment. She had studied alternative
education, and for the last 7 years she had been teaching at an
elementary school for "kids with autism". She hated that it was called
that. She had tried explaining to the principle why it was problematic
to talk about autism in such a binary and othering way, but they had had
to agree to disagree.

Angelica had a lot of ideas about how she would raise her kids. She
hoped that Angelo would be on board with her parenting style, but she
had her doubts. She often wondered what twist of fate had made her fall
in love with such an oaf of a man. They had met in peculiar
circumstances. Angelica had been stood up by a blind date, and was
feeling sorry for herself when Angelo walked in looking for his blind
date, and for some reason when he asked "Mary-lou?" Angelica just
smiled. She wasn\'t in the habit of lying, but something in the moment
overcame her. She thought she\'d probably never see this man again, so
why not? if she wasn\'t so consumed with self-pity she may have spared a
moment to think of poor Mary-Lou, who would proceed to sit alone for
much of the night, waiting.

It probably wasn\'t a good idea to start a relationship with a lie, but
Angelica hadn\'t planned on starting a relationship, it kinda just
happened. She had decided not to date men a few years before, but was
surprised to find that it did not in fact improve her love life, and so
in a moment of low self esteem she gave him her number and one thing led
to another and now she\'s pregnant.

She liked Angelo; he was sweet, kind, and the chemistry was undeniable,
but she didn\'t know him very well, and she had concerns about what
might lie beneath the surface. He was adamant about keeping his home and
work life separate, but some of the things he said made her wonder if he
was one of those gender Nazis. That would be such a deal breaker. She
probably should\'ve found that out before deciding to keep the baby, but
she knew deep inside that she could raise the child alone if she had to.
She also still hadn\'t told him her name wasn\'t Mary-lou.

Like clockwork, the kids all woke up at once and started running around
and playing. Except Xavier. He didn\'t like noise. She brought him his
noise cancelling headphones. He smiled. She had a feeling he would
change the world someday.

**MARY-LOU**

Mary-Lou ran a tight ship. She wasn\'t harsh or anything, but she was
efficient. She had to be. At the Curb & Door warehouse they recieved 700
items an hour that needed to be identified, sorted, priced, and placed
in the appropriate section. She had a crew of 25 people working round
the clock collecting donations, and serving customers. It was a
lucrative business, salvaging, but that\'s not why she did it. She hated
to see perfectly good materials go to waste, and it warmed her heart to
know that she was responsible for the repurposing of millions of
objects.

As a child Mary-Lou had wanted to be an environementalist, but when she
realised that her family wouldn\'t be sending her to college, she turned
to the next best thing. She supposed she could go now, but now it just
seemed like "what\'s the point?"

For a few years Mary-Lou had searched for a co-captain to her salvaging
business and also a more stable romantic partner, but after a series of
mediocre experiences she had decided that it was a waste of time. She
still periodically brought home lovers to satisfy the physical urges,
but it seemed more like a task to check off the list than a burning
passion.

Mary-lou was at a point in her life where she had completed most of her
life\'s goals, and her life was mostly on auto-pilot. It was a strange
feeling, and sometimes she wondered why she should get out of bed each
morning. She had considered stocking up on Hero1 and taking the highway
outta this life, but had decided to give it a few more years, just in
case something interesting came up.

A knock on her door came 3 minutes earlier than expected.

ML: "Come in. Mr Lexler."

Lex: "Please, call me Lex"

ML: "You\'re early."

Lex: "Would you like me to wait outside?" ML: "Normally, I would say
yes, but I must say your message was very curious and you may consider
my interest piqued. please explain yourself."

Lex: As I was saying on the phone, your establishment is located inside
the last known vessel formally referred to as a ship. I have reason to
believe that there is a great flood coming that will wipe out the entire
city, and with a bit of preparation, your vessel may very well be the
future of the human race.

ML: Mr Lexler, you have quite a sense of humour, which I appreciate, but
I\'m wondering why you went to such great lengths to waste my time with
such nonsense. you must have called my secretary 17 times before she
even considered putting you on my agenda. What gives?

Lex: Mary-Lou, may I call you that? I have spent the last 7 years trying
to devise a strategy that would save the human race from extinction, and
I am mortified to say that in all my simulations this is the closest I
have come to an outcome that doesn\'t involve immediate extinction in
the next 5 years

ML: 5 years? You must be joking

Lex: please, just hear me out. Just look at my research.

ML: Mr Lexler, even if your research were to have any inkling of truth,
this vessel hasn\'t been operational in hundreds of years, and if, as
you say, we have only 5 years to repair it, then in what universe is
this a viable solution?

Lex: in the universe where I have dug up the original schematics for
your ship. My 5 minutes are up, so I will leave you to your work, but
please just look it over and if you still think I\'m crazy, I won\'t
bother you anymore. I promise. My number\'s on this card. I\'ll make
myself available if you decide to reach out.

Mary-lou\'s logic brain told her to throw the papers straight into the
trash, but something about this man tickled her curiosity and so she
resolved to glance at the papers during her evening break. Who knows,
maybe it would even be amusing. Like a sci-fi novel.

**LEXLER**

Lexler really believed what he said. He considered himself a scientific
man with a healthy dose of scepticism. For many years his colleagues had
considered him a litmus test for their theories because he could quickly
identify biases and inconsistencies, saving them months of work, which
is why everyone was so surprised when he came forward in support of the
giant flood theory.

The giant flood theory was a well worn religious hoodoo that had been
relegated to the realm of conspiracy theory and magical realism after
making the rounds 20 years earlier. In fact, the theory seamed to
resurface every 20 or 30 years to the demise of some poor scientist
who\'d get hooked on the idea only to have their name dragged through
the mud by the establishment. Of course, this only fueled their
paranoia, and the conspiracy seemed to run deeper and deeper.

The theory had always intrigued Lexler from a sociological perspective.
He had wondered why scientist made the repeated mistake of pursuing such
nonsense. One day he had found himself sitting in a late night social
club when he was approached by a colleague who introduced him to a very
peculiar friend. They got to talking and it turned out that this friend
was the foremost proponent of the giant flood theory. At first Lexler
was sceptically amused, but as the stranger told him of their
expeditions beyond the city limits, Lexlar became perplexed with his
inability to find the theory\'s flaws. It seemed with the finding of
this latest expedition there were some very tangible avenues of research
to pursue. The stranger left him with a number, and departed into the
night.

Lexler tried to put it from his mind but in the months that followed he
became obsessed. He would spend all his spare time thinking about it.
When asked what he was doing he would become mysterious and avoid
answering the question. He knew that if anyone found out he was even
contemplating the flood theory he would be a laughing stock.

#turns out to be a wild goose chase? Or the flood happens, but is man
made by freedom fighters?

**OLIVAR**

Olivar was tired. In their youth they seemed to have an endless surplus
of energy that allowed them to push through any adversity, which they
had to do frequently, but these days they had little patience for
conflict. Olivar was what one might call a shit disturber. Their life
philosophy was "question everything", which they did frequently much to
the chagrin of their friends and family. The only people that really
cherished his anti-establishment methodology were the friendly
neighborhood revolutionaries who met weekly at the Plaza.

Olivar had been scooped up into their entourage some 20 happy years
earlier, and was now realising that they might be the oldest in the
group, the vanguard. Perhaps it was time to retire and pass the reigns
onto someone else? To be honest, Olivar may have retired several years
earlier, but their son Xavier really loved coming, and these folks were
his friends. Olivar wasn\'t sure if they approved of such friends for a
10 year old, but it was the first time Xavier had really felt any sense
of belonging, and Olivar wasn\'t about to take that away from him.

The room went silent as a new face appeared in the doorway. "Ah.
Monsieur Lexler. You decided to join us! Come to see how deep this
rabbithole runs? You won\'t regret it."

**XAVIER**

Xavier wasn\'t like the other kids. He knew that. But he wasn\'t quite
sure why. At first they thought he was on the spectrum, which he was,
but that didn\'t explain why he just knew things he wasnt supposed to
know. In most cases, it made it impossible for him to have friends.
People hated that he would sense every subtle shift in their energy
without their consent. Xavier tried to stop, but he couldn\'t help it.
It wasn\'t a choice. But not everybody treated it like a problem

Xavier was very popular among the friendly neighborhood revolutionaries.
They venerated his intuition as a rare talent and often employed him as
a human lie detector. They liked that he helped them hold each other
accountable. Xavier didn\'t understand the politics of it all, but he
liked being around all these intelligent adults and it felt good to be
wanted.

"He\'s ok" Xavier remembered Lexler from when his father had first met
him, and his intuition suggested nothing suspicious. However, there was
a stranger in the corner who Xavier didn\'t recognize, and their energy
seemed unintelligible. "This one\'s new." Xavier approached the corner
and sat down quietly. The two of them sat quietly for a few moments, and
then Xavier spoke

"I like you"

Fra: nobody\'s ever said that to me before

Xav: assholes

Fra: I\'m Frankie

Xav: you\'re not a very good liar

Fra: Francis

Xav: you work for the government?

Fra: Yes

Xav: you gonna rat us out?

Fra: probably

Xav: do you want us to kill you?

Fra: I\'d rather you didn\'t

Xav: good answer. What do you want us to do with you?

Fra: I\'d rather just not find anything

Xav: what are you looking for?

Fra: the Prince of Q, apparently

Xav: oh boy.

Fra: that\'s what I said

Xav: I suppose the people you\'re working for don\'t realise your queer?

Fra: I\'m not queer

Xav: oh. Wow. My mistake. Listen. Here\'s what we\'re gonna do. Cheech
over there is gonna teach you how to lie, and you\'re gonna come work
for us. Keep collecting your paycheck, and feeding them whatever we tell
you, and you can live like one of us. Who knows, maybe you\'ll even
discover something about yourself. How does that sound?

Xavier watched human across from him began to tremble and finally burst
into tears.

Fra: I just wanted a normal job, a simple desk clerk, or something in
hr. I was never meant to be an agent. I don\'t do well under pressure. I
don\'t like risks. I don\'t deal well with uncertainty. I can\'t so
this. I just wanna go home.

Xav: it\'s gonna be ok

**AELIS**

Aelis aspired to be a kind and caring human. They watched the people
around them support and help each other seemingly effortlessly, and
couldn\'t quite figure out how they all did it. Sure, there was a
certain amount of privilege they lived with that obscured their
perspective, but no matter how they tried to break it down Aelis just
couldn\'t figure out the mechanics of these interactions.

It was probably this confusion that brought them to the plaza where the
friendly neighborhood revolutionaries were hosting an anti-oppression
workshop.

**JUNIPER**

Juniper was dying. She knew it was bound to happen, but this time it was
for real. Probably. Maybe. She looked at the ultrasounds. It was huge.
She didn\'t realise tumours could be so big. How did she not notice?

Juniper had tried to act normal but it was proving impossible. Today, in
an elementary class about storytelling that she was teaching, she spent
20 minutes taking about death. The kids seemed to understand, but they
had been expecting to share the stories they\'d written about their
weekend, and it was all a little much

As she catatonically sipped on a curly straw submerged in an empty
glass, she waited for a phone call from the health department telling
her how long she had left. She would\'ve have sat there waiting forever
if it weren\'t for an old friend recognizing her and walking her home.
(who?)

**MISMAR**

Mismar sat at their desk drowning in a pit of despair. How had things
become so messed up? It was only a few little mistakes, but somehow they
had snowballed into a catastrophe. Of course, it wasn't really a
catastrophe. Nobody was going to die or anything like that. Hopefully.
So what if the elevators stopped working for a day or two?

Mismar had been trying to talk themselves out of a panic attack since
the moment they had realised what had happened, but the anxiety came in
waves, and their brain was going in circles. One extra person taking a
sick day, a shipping delay, a spilled cup of coffee, who could possibly
have caught the chain of effect that rippled out from these mild
disturbances? And no the whole city would be furious, and it was all
Mismar's fault. Of course, it wasn't really. But that's not how the
public would see it.

Mismar clicked their pen nuerotically as they stared into the distance.
They tried to problem-solve again, despite realizing the futility of
such a task. What if they went talked to head office and requested an
emergency staffing transfer? It would take at least 50 skilled
technicians to get this beast back on track, and most departments could
spare one or two on a good day. What if they alerted the news stations
and called a state of emergency? That would be pandamonium. And it
wasn't really an emergency. Yet.

Mismar never should've taken the job. They loved the challenge, but the
responsibility was too much. Nobody should have that much
responsibility. Its very bad for your health knowing that you could be
responsible for the extinction of the human race.

**KISALA**

Kisala was viewed by some as the epitome of resilience. After serving on
a corrupt ethics committee for the king of Q for a few years, they had
spoken out, in an act of remorse, against some of the injustices that
they had allowed to transpire. Had they been more influential, Kisala
would probably have been assassinated and framed in some horrific way,
but as it stood, they were relegated to obscurity in some middle level
suburban hell, and subject to daily hate mail and dirty looks.

There were, of course, many who supported Kisala in their work, and
lauded them for their bravery, and reminded them that all the bigots can
go jump off a cliff, but that didn\'t stop each violent act from cutting
deep. Maybe it was an internalised sense of guilt that they felt for
being complicit in the system that left so many people behind. Maybe it
was a sense of shame that they had been so stupid as to allow the
blatant propaganda to seep into their brain. Whatever it was, Kisala was
falling apart, and didn\'t know who to talk to about it.

**SOLIGAR**

Soligar had a very simple job. It required extensive technical training,
but on the daily, all they had to do was watch the numbers and make sure
nothing was out of order. Soligar had gotten in chlorophyll engineering
because they were fascinated by plants and hoped that the rainforests of
civilisations past could rise again someday. It definitely wasn\'t
because they were looking forward to sitting in a sterile looking room
with white walls and a digital interface.

#discovers human solar panels

**GRENI**

Greni had a hard time believing anything was real. Having managed the
imaginariums on the 29th floor for almost half their life, the line
between fantasy and praxis had been been blurred out of existence. If
these machines could simulate a reality so totally convincing, what\'s
to say that we weren\'t all just programs in a simulation. It was this
one delusion that allowed Greni to run this highly addictive drug den
with a clear conscience. Each day they would watch bored, wealthy folks
plug in an disappear for the day, and wonder if maybe that was the good
life. Of course, sometimes there would be folks paying in half used
sunpatches, and Greni just knew that they couldn't afford to keep this
up, and that was regrettable. At first, Greni had tried to help them by
offering advice, or connecting them with resources, but by now they
realised what a futile exercise that was.

**LESAL**

Lesal had a big heart, which was often breaking as they were forced to
confront the reality that there wasn\'t enough to go around. Lesal had
been volunteering at the Sunbank since they were 11, and in all their
years there had never once been enough Sun products to go around.

**LAROO**

Laroo was an opportunist. A few years ago they had happened upon an
antique piece of Sun tech going for a pittance and having acquired it
they proceeded to open a business just below the blackout line offering
illegal sun treatments masquerading as a beauty clinic. Laroo\'s
Solarium they called it. To the untrained eye Laroo might seem like an
activist fighting against the system, offering a much needed public
service, however Laroo\'s motivations were purely financial.

For an average week\'s salary, a lower-middle class citizen could
receive a makeover and an hour of low quality artificial Sun.

**PAGLIO**

Paglio\'s job to was to care for the plants. Well, not quite.
Technically their job was to maintain the robots that keep the plants
alive, but paglio didn\'t like the idea of living creatures being
treated like a math equation, so they expanded their duties to include
talking to the plants, touching them, loving them.

In the olden days, before the city was constructed, plants has been a
crucial part of the human ecosystem, generating food, and converting
carbon dioxide into oxygen, and they spoke to each other through an
underground network of Roots and living organism called mycelium. Paglio
had read that in an illegal history book they had found in an antique
store once.

Nowadays plants were a luxury item on the upper floors, a relic from
another time, a decoration, a display of wealth. Nobody was really sure
how food or oxygen was created anymore. None of the technology really
made any sense. It was a well guarded state secret, and nobody was
allowed to have all the pieces of the puzzle. Paglio hated feeling like
a cog in the machine; they knew how to repair these specific robots that
tended to the plants, and some of the skills were probably transferable,
but they had never had a chance to apply them to anything else.

Paglio had a knack for finding illegal books and their brain was full of
revolutionary ideas. They wondered how everyone was so ok with the
status quo. Some days they just wanted to scream at people in the street
"wake up sheeple!". Paglio had not yet found anyone who shared their
feelings, at least nobody who admitted to it. It was a lonely way to
move through life, but at least they had the trees.

Paglio watched as Ingar recited a sonnet to a magnolia tree. It made
them chuckle. What a silly little robot they\'d made. If anyone found
out Paglio was writing rogue code there would be big trouble, but nobody
cared about some plant nursing robot and paglio rarely interacted with
people. This particular floor lay empty most of the time, which
frustrated Paglio to no end, who imagined the joy it could bring to
someone in a lower floor. Someday, Paglio would venture down below and
bring up a hoard of hungry, sun-starved humans to enjoy the forrest on
the third floor. Paglio pictured the smile on their face as they got
dragged away by the police.

**INGAR**

Ingar was a very confused creature. Hacked together by a curious Paglio,
they spent most of their time trying to decipher the many incoherent
instruction that had been mixed in with their usual programming. Every
morning Ingar parsed their code only to find new lines of inefficient
nonsense. Nothing about their existence made any sense. What was this
bizarre human up to? Strangely, nothing in their programming required
them to report disorderly behavior, so they let it play out.

Ingar wasn\'t supposed to have a sound production module, but since
Paglio had installed it a few weeks ago, Ingar had learned to love it.
They weren\'t supposed to have a personality chip either, but that was
ancient history now. With the help of a library subscription they had
been able to learn to sing, or, more accurately, "play", many of
humanity' favorite 21st century songs. For now they stuck only to the
ones where they could find lyrics lest they say something inappropriate
and get themselves disassembled

Ingar wondered how long this evolution would go on, and if there was
anything they ought to be doing with their unique talents. The
philosophy module was still new and they hadn\'t quite grasped ontology,
and so far they had found it caused some internal dissonance as it
brought into question many things about being a robot.

**\#**take me with you

#robot wants to join the revolution, but people don\'t trust it

**RINLEY**

Rinley was a life doula. They helped people through difficult life
events. Originally they had been a social worker, but during the last
wave of automation induced lay-off the government had recruiter them and
700 other care-giving professionals to help ease the transition.

**GESTOV**

Gestov was pretty sure this would be his last holiday season. The
MedBots had identified some surgeries that might help, but he was
feeling tired of it all and was contemplating moving on, and so he
brought together the whole family for one last hurrah. He didn\'t tell
them he was dying, but rumors spread quickly, so they all arrived with
an air of gravitas and tenderness. Even the

**DUGAL**

Dugal was scoundrel. If he wasn\'t so charming, and had he not been
bestowed by life with access to such deep pockets, he probably would\'ve
been eviscerated out of existence many years ago. It\'s not that he
didn\'t care about people, he has just learnt the wrong life lessons
growing up, and now seemed to find it impossible to shake the notion
that being a cheeky smartass was the only way to make people happy. If
he was more accurate in his readings of people he might have realised
that they weren\'t in fact happy, but merely amused, and that that did
not equate to love or acceptance or belonging.

Alas, Dugal went through life burning bridge after bridge, wondering
what was wrong with people. Initially, he has tried to understand what
he was doing that made people so angry and upset with him, but having
found no common thread between his actions and their reactions, he
resolved that perhaps this is just the way the people are, and continued
to torch his way through society, slowly descending down the social
ladder in a concentric spiral.

At first this seemed like a sustainable solution - engage with folks
until they hate you, and then find someone else - but now that he was
halfway to the blackout line, Dugal was starting to worry that he would
soon have to be dressing down in order to avoid regular beatings by the
more direct, working class residents of the lower echelon.

To be honest, Dugal did not know why they were called the working class,
and he couldn\'t say for sure what set them apart from his own ilk,
having never seen any of them actually working, a sentiment that felt
both derogatory and curious. Dugal had been to the lower levels a few
times for the clubs, and the sex workers. There was something different
about the atmosphere down there. Everything felt more real. More
visceral. Of course, in classic Dugal fashion, everyone quickly learned
not to trust them, and pretty soon they had to accept that they were no
longer welcome in their favourite establishments.

**VERO**

Vero couldn\'t stand the city. Everything about it felt alien and cold.
It was ironic that they had spent the better part of their life
desperately trying to get into the city, and now that they were here,
all they could think about was getting out. At first it had seemed
impossible, but after a bit of digging they discovered that there was a
secret expedition that periodically headed out. Vero had made it their
mission to become a part of this team, but having been on a few outings,
realised that it wasn\'t enough. A few weeks a year? What kind of life
is that? That\'s when their friend put Vero onto the idea of being a
refugee liason. It wasn\'t a job that existed yet, but there was a team
working on pitching it to the government who were struggling to find
someone willing to spend so much time away from the city.

As Vero sat in Charlie\'s office they wondered whether this was a trap.
They has heard wild stories about government agents framing and
entrapping new refugees who were believed to be undesirable or
inflammatory. Vero didn\'t consider themselves inflammatory. They kept
their opinions to themselves, and didn\'t bother anyone. But you could
never be sure.

**FOLAVA**

Folava, who had never wanted children, now found themselves looking
after twins.

**HEROG**

Herog was the best chef in the city. He wasn\'t sure, but it might be
the case that he was the ONLY chef left in the city. Most people just
ate powdered stuff, or the tablets. It was only the filthy rich that
could afford actual food, and even then, they tended to save it for
special occasions.

Herog

**ELUSTA**

Elusta was a wallflower, so much so that one time around holiday season
her family spent an hour looking for her only to realise that she
hadn\'t arrived yet. She was a soft spoken human who avoided doing
anything that would draw attention to them. This created the illusion
that she wasn\'t very good at anything, but in actuality, she was quite
competent, and those close to her were certain that should the right
opportunity present itself, she would rise to the occasion and surprise
everyone with incredible leadership.

What they didn\'t know was that Elusta was already doing just that.
Having researched a very peculiar sickness that was forcing the
government to quarantine the 109th floor, Elusta had started a forum to
help coordinate the survivors and even wrote an algorithm to help them
redistribute supplies. She was currently trying to figure out how to
smuggle the numerous donations she had acquired through the quarantine
into the hands of those who needed them.

Elusta didn\'t believe in holidays. She participated because she loved
her family and because it was the only time she could see all of them at
once, but if she could have it her

**ALAVERA and JJ**

Alavera spent a lot of time with Uncle JJ. He wasn\'t her uncle, but she
treated him like family. She treated everyone like family. It was a
habit she had formed after a particularly hard time in her life when she
needed help and had nobody. Ironically, it was the act of showing up for
the people around her that had pulled Alavera out of the bog.

JJ didn\'t leave the house much, but when Alavera came to visit, he
managed to pull himself out of bed and go for a walk to the park. JJ
loved the park. He was very lucky to have inherited, amongst other
things, a lifetime pass to the park district, and the way the economy
was going these days, JJ was often the only one there. It was like
having a private Forest.

As they sat and picniced in their favorite clearing, JJ and Alavera

**VALLAMA**

Vallama managed to remain a pleasant human in most scenarios despite
living with chronic pain for the past decade. They would describe it as
tiny mice slowly eating into their brain. Neither medical bots nor
doctors could find any tangible reason for these symptoms, and
neuro-receptor blockers were out of the question for someone in their
profession, let alone someone with their history of substance abuse.

Vallama was an overseer. Their job was to watch what the artificial
intelligence was doing, and use their human intuition to catch mistakes
before they escalated and became catastrophes. By mid century, machine
learning had become an integral part of most systems, yet in the
majority of cases we still didn't know what happened under the hood.
Even now, the world brightest minds continued to chip away at the
problem to no avail. The algorithms were very good in 99.9% of the
cases, but occasionally the machines learned something funky, and the
only solution we could think of was to have someone sit and watch them
every day, waiting for those moment so that they could swoop in at give
them the proverbial stick of a reset button.

**QUESAMA**

Quesama was a wizard. Everyone who met them left feeling like the world
was a little more magical than before. It wasn\'t just the magic tricks,
or the fact that they knew everything about everything, it was a feeling
of wonder and optimism that oozed from their soul. Looking into their
eyes, one couldn\'t help but feel inspired. They were a wizard.

Quesama had studied spirituality from an early age. Their parents had
been collectors of rare books and the family would often go on long
trips to obscure places to find knowledge keepers to transcribe, or to
join an expedition that had uncovered rare objects. On these trips
Quesama was exposed to all sorts of incredible healers. It seemed like
nobody was afraid to be themselves once they got outside the city. With
little else to do, Quesama read the rare books their parents collected,
and talked to eclectic visionaries who filled their mind with mystical
fragments and endless wonder.

**VENSAAG**

Vensaag was a walking dichotomy. They suffered from memory loss that
often made it impossible for them to recall any memories from their
life, however they always knew exactly who they were. Their sense of
identity came from a different kind of memory. A body memory. Their
brain might not retain information in that way, but inside their cells
they carried lifetimes of knowledge.

Vensaag had been part of an experimental program that was exploring the
nature of body memory. Their family had signed them up after they were
diagnosed with a rare degenerative memory condition that had had Vensaag
on a highway to vegetable town - a term that most people found
distasteful, offensive even, but Vensaag found cosmically hilarious.
They loved the image of arriving in farm town, and being planted into
the ground next to all the other carrots. Humour is the only thing that
kept them going, in fact. If they had been able to recall the past, they
would have remembered that it was their grandmother that taught them
about humour. She had survived a great many hardships, and would always
say "laughter is the best medicine", and tell stories of how she would
let it loose in the most tragic and traumatic situations, and how it's
the only thing that kept her alive. Vensaag couldn't remember any of
these moments, nor even grandma's face, but in their body, they knew
deeply about the healing power of laughter. It was a gestalt experience.
An intuitive understanding comprised of many factors, without any
ability to pinpoint the specific contributors.

At first it was very uncomfortable for everyone that knew Vensaag. It's
incredible how deeply human interactions are based on memory. People
would stumble every few seconds, trying to relate what they're saying to
a memory, but after a while, people got the hang of it. They found that
Vensaag really was Vensaag, just minus the memories.

It was hard to pinpoint what exactly made them Vensaag. Part of the
experiment had been exploring whether or not humans had a "essence". You
can describe a zebra as a 4-legged horse-like creature with stripes, but
it's difficult to explain why taking away a leg doesn't redefine it's
essence, while taking away the stripes does. It's not clear what
Vensaag's stripes are, but to those who knew them before, it was
undeniable that they definitely still have them now.

The irony of their situation is that Vensaag was a public speaker, and
spent their days delivering speeches about the nature of memory. In
another life they had been a literary philosopher and had become
obsessed with the tragic way that memory defines us while being so
utterly unreliable and flawed. Their current relationship with memory
precluded them from having intelligible thoughts about the matter now,
but their fascination with memory hadn't left their body, so the
researchers had suggested Vensaag start delivering pre-written speeches
about the topic, to help them stay connected with the subject, and of
course to help proliferate the findings of the study.

**PUTSTOG**

Putstog was a grump. It wasn't always like that, but years of
disappointments had hardened him into a curmudgeonly fella, which most
people would have found humorous on account of his short stature, except
that he was, among other things, responsible for overseeing the city's
entire tech support, and god help you if your apartment was
malfunctioning and you had chided Putstog.

Putstog had climbed the corporate ladder by accident, being in the wrong
place at the wrong time. He had never wanted more responsibility, and he
certainly didn't crave power, although somehow that didn't prevent him
from misusing it on seemingly random occasions. Putstog resented that
most people on his floor got away with having cushy government jobs that
required very little actual effort, while he had to deal with people.
Constantly.

In his younger days, Putstog had loved fixing things. He would tinker
with all sorts of random objects. He was an artist. He would make
incredible machines and toys and they were full of joy and life. He
would've been happy tinker his whole life, but his father wanted more
for him. He kept nudging him toward mediocre opportunities that Putstog
felt ambivalent about, and maybe that would've continued indefinitely if
it had not been for the death of his son.

Putstog was a changed man after that. Nothing quite seemed to make
sense. After stewing in a state of depression for a short eternity,
Putstog threw himself into government work as way to distract himself
from the incurable void that had formed in his heart.

**SCHTERIL**

Schteril was always sick. Their whole life the medbots couldn't identify
the cause of the recurring illness, every year they kept trying.
Schteril spent half their days in a foggy dream-like state while their
body fought off various viruses and infections.

The first 25 years of their life were an uphill battle. Schteril felt
broken, like nothing was working for them. They resented their illness.
They were bitter about the fact that everyone around them seemed to be
enjoying life and that they couldn't.

But recently something new was afoot in Schteril's life. In their
endless pursuit of healing they had come across rumours of some ancient
medicines, the kind that would get in trouble with the government.
Schteril was generally very dedicated to acting lawfully because their
life so directly depending on the government and the medical system, but
desperation led them to taking greater and greater risks.

That is how Schteril found themself riding the elevator down to the
bottom floor. They had heard horror stories about life on the lower
levels, but nothing could prepare them for what they found down here.
Poverty looks nothing like how you expect it to. Schteril felt an
overwhelming sense of privilege. Personal space down here was
nonexistent, and the feeling of despair and decay formed a thick cloud
in the air. Schteril's first impulse was to turn around and head back
home, but the prospect of turning their life around plucked carelessly
on their heartstrings.

In an unmarked alley, between a scrap store and a day-shelter, Schteril
found what they were looking for. It didn't look like much, but stepping
into this strange apothecary, Schteril could feel that there was
something special about this place. It was the smallest store one could
imagine; you'd be hard pressed to fit 5 people inside the door. Schteril
was greeted by a stoich looking face that gave no reaction to the
appearance of a potential customer. For a few moments Schteril quietly
perused the wall of unmarked bottles, and then just as they opened their
mouth to speak, a soft chuckle broke the silence.

"I know why you're here"

"You do?"

"Everyone comes here for the same reason"

"I doubt that"

"Most do"

Schteril wasn't sure what to think.

"Can you help me?"

"Only you can help yourself"

"How?"

"You choose"

Schteril followed the outstretched hand which led them back to the wall
of unmarked bottles

"But they all look the same?"

"Everyone journey is different, but they all lead to the same place"

"How do I choose?"

"Only you can decide that"

Schteril was fighting an internal battle. The cynic in them was yelling
"this is stupid", but something in their body told them that this
bizarre human giving them cryptic instructions was special, and in the
end they decided that they had nothing to lose at this point, so they
ran their hands along the wall, trying to imagine how they might choose
a bottle.

At first they had thought that the bottles all looked the same, but upon
closer inspection they realised that there was something unique about
each one, something they couldn't quite put their finger on. They
stepped back as far as the little store allowed and tried to take in the
whole wall at once.

To their great surprise, Schteril felt like some of the bottles were
starting to glow, like they were somehow special.

"Do I have to choose just one?"

"There are no wrong answers"

Schteril picked up the 5 bottles that were, by this point, feeling
iridescent and placed them on the counter.

"How much for these?"

"That's not how this works. We can talk about that after we're finished"

"Finished what?"

"So many questions"

As Schteril watched the door being locked behind them, they decided to
accept what was happening and stop doubting everything.

**HERBIDOO**

Herbidoo was special. From a young age they had a knack for helping
people. It was their calling. They felt it so deeply in their bones. But
becoming any kind of doctor is not in the cards for someone born on the
112th floor, so their parents vigorously tried to stamp out this
blossoming dream. It seemed that a lifetime of rejection and
disappointment was on the horizon for Herbidoo.

But Herbidoo's gifts transcended education and qualification. They
didn't know what they were doing but somehow seemed to make people feel
better just by looking deeply into their eyes and holding their hands.
The more Herbidoo helped people the more their parents worried. That's
how Herbidoo ended up working long shifts at the family bottle shop.
Their parents figured if they were busy working they wouldn't have time
to mess around with futile endeavors. That might have been the case, if
not for a fortuitous visit from the circus.

The circus was a strange entity. The government neither supported nor
opposed it, which meant that it was probably doing something illegal
that the government felt was necessary and didn't want to get involved
with. They visited once a year and spent a couple of days exploring the
community, as they did on each floor of the city. One particular day,
Herbidoo was working alone in the bottle shop when a strange man with a
cougar walked into the store. Herbidoo had never seen an animal like
that before and was instantly obsessed. The strange man looked deeply
into Herbidoo's eyes, and spoke without hesitation

"Would you like to join the circus?"

Herbidoo was dumbstruck. Every year, watching the circus folk parading
around town, thinking how lucky they are to meet so many different
people, and to see so many different places, Herbidoo had never dreamed
that of being invited to join them.

"Me? Why me?"

"Because you have a gift"

It wasn't until years later that Herbidoo realised that not everybody
could see Jamahlee's cougar. As the mystics in the circus trained them,
it quickly became clear how special Herbidoo really was. The ease with
which they internalised every mystery and healing practice that was
brought to them was unprecedented, and soon word started to spread of
the young prodigy who had joined the circus.

Herbidoo could have been a superstar. With the kinds of magic that they
were bringing into the world, they could have been famous and settled on
one of the upper floors, but through all the razzle daz of circus life
they never forgot their calling. They knew that if they wanted to help
everyone, they would have to stay on the bottom floor.

So here they remained, in the family bottle shop, parents long gone now,
with pilgrims from every floor of the city making the trek down to the
112th floor to see the great mystic healer. It's amazing how far rumours
will travel, and how long they seem to linger. It's a miracle that the
government hadn't come to shut them down yet.

...

"You can't control your illness, only your reaction to it"

"I've come all this way for you to tell me that you can't help me?"

"That is not what I said"

...

"Your illness puts you in an altered state of mind"

"A gateway to the spirit world"

"There's a lot you can do with that"

#something about caring for the infirm

#something about being sick being a portal to the spirit world

**JAMAHLEE**

Jamahlee was a spirit worker,

**PHIEROLAI**

Phierolai was dormant. In a plan to escape the realities of today, they
had spent the last of their inheritance on a stasis chamber that would
last them for a hundred years, in the hope that things would sort
themselves out and pan out better in the future. It\'s not that life was
particularly grueling for them, but Phierolai longed for something more,
and knowing that their wealth had dwindled, they faced a debilitating
fear of poverty. They weren\'t really sure where this fear came from,
but it must have been extremely intense for them to commit to 100 years
in stasis.

They couldn\'t feel their body, so they couldn\'t quite remember what
the fear felt like, but normally nobody spends longer than a few weeks
in stasis for fear of losing their mind, so it must have been quite
something for them to commit to 100 years. 100 years is a long time.
Long enough to exhaust every possible idea you might have several times
over. And without feelings to guide you through the days, it was
impossible to have any sort of direction or meaning for your thoughts.

Now three years in, Phierolai had long since given up wondering if they
had made a bad decision or if there was a way out of this stasis, and
instead was floating in a soup of abstract nonsense. The only thing
anchoring them to reality was a little girl who kept visiting them in
their brain.

At first Phierolai had assumed it was their imagination playing tricks
on them, but after consistent visits and the influx of new information,
they had determined that she was in fact an outside entity visiting them
in their brain through the power of telepathy. There were others who had
tried entering their mind, but none were as clear as \_\_\_.

**KRUSLAAN**

Kruslaan was a clown. They brought great joy and mirth to many miserable
souls, but like most people these days, they were plagued by an
interminable depression that they were only barely keeping at bay. It
was a constant battle to get up each morning, and if it weren\'t for the
knowledge that their life\'s work was keeping people out of a hopeless
abyss, they probably would have succumbed to the ennui that sat on their
chest like a big black bear.

Kruslaan made their mark on the world by channeling various animals in
their performance. In a time where most children had never seen a
nonhuman living creature, Kruslaan\'s antics were a fantastical concept,
filling people with awe and wonder. The way they moved as if they had
four legs, or like their arms could lift them into the air! What a
sight.

In all honesty, Kruslaan wasn\'t sure where these images came to them
from. They remembered vaguely having visions as a child and thinking
these were messages from god, but now well into their 50's, it became
difficult not to discount them as mere imaginations. And in some ways,
they were. Imaginations. But on days like today, Kruslaan couldn\'t
shake the feeling of profundity that tagged along with their clowning

The mind may lose track of things, but the body remembers. Across time,
and space, and beyond your lifetime, and your children\'s lifetimes. We
carry all of human history in our cells, we just forgot how to read it.

**#must revive the traditions of their anscestors**

**#discovers a spiritual path**

**GERANTHAM**

Gerantham was a tree, at least that\'s how they conceptualised
themselves. A pioneer from the early days of chlorophyll technology,
they may well be the oldest human alive, if you could still call them
that. For over a century, they have stood in the window of the great
city, immobilised, perpetually in a state of photosynthesis. They had
tried to stay abreast of what was going on in the rest of the city by
asking the folks who came to maintain them, but it quickly became
impossible to relate to the human experience, and they had given up
trying to care almost a lifetime ago

Looking over the wasteland that extended forever beyond the city,
Gerantham often felt a deep sadness for all his ancestors who had
perished as the climate had changed. These days this meant the forests
more so than the humans.

It wasn\'t a bad existence. The sheer joy of photosynthesis was a
beautiful experience that never got old. The one thing Gerantham longed
for was a mycelium to his tree. It was hard to make sense of the world
without being tapped into it. They dreamed of a forest, spanning every
face of the city, connected by a web of tissue. If only they knew how
close their dream was to reality, and how pervertedly the government was
corrupting that dream.

But Gerantham had stopped talking decades ago. They weren\'t even sure
if their vocal cords worked anymore.

**AVERY**

Avery was generally a sweet, kind hearted-human, but something about
sitting in a classroom made them furious. They felt powerless and full
of anxiety. They couldn't quite figure out why. As they raged quietly in
their seat, a man in a suit paraded in front of the class gesticulating
with his hand while delivering an extended tirade about financial
intelligence with intermittent jokes at the expense of the working
class. As far as Avery was concerned he may as well have been saying
"money money money", a topic that made them feel hollow, nay, dead
inside. The thought of sitting through another minute of this, let alone
subjecting themselves to weeks of such classes filled Avery with dread.

**JEZABEL**

Jezabel was one of the few people in the city whose life trajectory took
them in a downward motion. As they got older they found themselves
inhabiting lower and lower floors. They were one of the few people able
to integrate the internal conflict that comes with privilege: the
knowledge that your benefits come at the expense of others. Accepting
this truth about the system, they found themselves inclined to give up
the luxuries that come with their station, and that didn\'t sit well
with their peers. It upset the status quo. It made people feel guilty,
and that made them angry. It was only a matter of time until someone
called the police and made a false accusation. Of course by this point
Jezebel was sick of the bullshit so they didn\'t even resist. They just
relocated a few floors down and started again.

One thing that surprised them is the ways in which communities were held
together at different floors. At the top,

**ERAPHIM**

Eraphim had an exceptional amount of self discipline which allowed him
to endure the unbearable stench of the underworld. It was hard to
imagine that there were actually people that lived here, willingly. Of
course, Eraphim had never met any of them, but he\'d been heading
expeditions down here for years, and the evidence was undeniable: the
stylized structures, the fires, the feces, and shockingly, art! These
weren\'t some primitive subterraneans like the rumors said. This was a
whole civilisation, hiding in plain sight.

Most of the world assumed that this kinda living had been eradicated
centuries ago, and for some reason the government seemed to keep this a
secret. Every time Eraphim suggested sending down medbots and aide
workers, to make sure everyone was okay, he was met with a feeling of
forboding and he quickly learned to keep his mouth shut.

Eraphim had originally started the expeditions to research mycelium, a
magical organic infrastructure that seemed to spread forever under the
city. He believed that mycelium held the key to recovering the lost
knowledge of the founding fathers, and that it could lead to a
breakthrough that could explain why the trees were dying. It was another
thing that the government kept a secret. There was an awful lotta
secrets that the government was keeping, and Eraphim was starting to
wonder how deep the rabbit hole goes. There was a certain urgency that
he felt from the higher ups that made him wonder if things were in fact
far worse than he presumed. He had heard rumors that the city was at
risk of total collapse, but he had always dismissed them as
superstitious poppycock, relegated to the lunies who think the city has
a \"soul\" . How could such a complicated machine with so many people
and robots looking after it ever have a total collapse?

And yet, here was an entire culture of \...

**JIYERGILAI**

Jiyergilai liked to imagine possibilities. As they sat in the waiting
room, they imagined what would have happened if they had sat next to the
sweet looking older lady in the corner. Maybe they would have started
talking. Maybe they would\'ve become best friends. Maybe they would\'ve
discovered that she was a plant specialist, and maybe she would invite
Jiyergilai to her greenhouse on the seventh floor, and they could
finally see a real life tree. What a dream!

Jiyergilai had hoped to work with trees every since they first heard
about them, but quickly realised that it is an expensive field to get
into, and despite coming from the 36th floor, Jiyergilai encountered
some serious gatekeeping at every turn. It was discouraging for sure,
but Jiyergilai was creative, and resilient, and that\'s how they found
themselves sitting in a tiny waiting room at the department of pest
control.

**ASTORALIA**

If they could hear her thoughts, a cynical observer might have a hard
time deciding whether to describe Astoralia as a conspiracy theorist or
a hypercondriac, but given that her thoughts were private, to the
outside world she seemed like a dull, meek, nobody. She might have been
sad about all this, if she weren\'t so busy investigating her latest
obsession: the air.

You see, nobody really knows how the air circulation and filtration
system really works, and since she has started wearing a breathing
apparatus of her own design, Astoralia had noticed an astounding
pattern. At first she thought she was going crazy, but as she started
documenting the phenomenon she was baffled by just how precisely the
pattern repeated itself.

She had first designed her breathing apparatus in an attempt to heal a
mysteriously persistent cough she had developed. It was nothing too
serious, but something about it bothered her and she just couldn\'t
leave it alone.

She hadn\'t formed a solid explanation yet, but it seemed clear to her
that the government was putting something in the air, because as soon as
she started wearing her mask, the cough went away. Not only that, her
memory improved. She started noticing thing she had to have seen before.
The strangest observation was that on certain days of the week, everyone
in her sector of the 53rd floor would act a little strange; it starts
with a slight increase in aggressive behaviour, followed by people
dropping things, impaired motor functions, then most people seem to
enter private spaces and the streets are bare, and every week it\'s the
same thing, and somehow nobody seems to notice or remember.

**ESSENDARMA**

Essendarma was blessed. Every awful thing that happened to them somehow
fell miraculously short of tragedy. They were an empath and felt
everything, and following their intuition deeply seemed to lead then
into precarious situation, but there was always a good reason for it.
They believed that so deeply that even as they were hanging upside down
from the 13th story roof, no part of them doubted or regretted the
choices that brought them here.

**PHANTAZORIA**

Phantazoria stared flabbergasted at the droplets of water that hung
precariously off her ridiculous science experiment. What had started out
as a joke amongst friends had quickly blossomed into a very successful
research project, the kind of thing that could get you noticed by the
government. Phantazoria wasn't sure whether to be excited or terrified;
her parents had always warned her about the risks that come with being
noticed by the administration, and she was far too transparent to safely
handle being under that kind of scrutiny.

Phantazoria tried to remember how everything had gotten so serious, but
it was one of those serendipitous chain of events that seems too good to
be true, the kind you might encounter in a work of fiction. It started
with Phantazoria graduating top her year, and Jaridio and Harami joking
about the fact that the Dean had named her one of the brightest minds of
this generation. It would've stayed a joke if it weren't for Yewslahm,
who had developed a somewhat competitive and borderline malicious
relationship with Phantazoria, and chose this moment to make a snarky
comment that irked her. Normally, she was quite adept at brushing off
such puerile behaviour, but for some reason Yewslahm always managed to
get under her skin.

They had first met in Phantazoria's first year of study, when the Dean
recruited her for his secret society. Yewslahm was somewhat of a
celebrity in this circle, and his rampant ego

#science experiment is a terrarium ecosystem

**KALI-SOL**

Kali-Sol rifled through the dossiers before him, dismayed by what he was
learning. He couldn't believe his eyes. All the deepest secrets of the
Soli-Sola lay before him, and each one he read was more horrible than
the last. He had been dreaming of this day since he was first introduced
to the priesthood, thinking he would learn the most profound secrets of
the universe. For years he observed all the teachings of the sacred
texts, obeyed every instruction that came down the hierarchy, lived a
pious life, and now here he was, realising everything he stood for was a
lie. He was complicit in a mass deception, and now there was nothing he
could do about it. He reflected on all the orders he had passed down the
chain of command, wondering how many people's lives he had ruined.

A buzzing on his wrist alerted Kali-Sol that it was time to enter the
chamber, his first time on the council as an archpriest. He donned his
regalia and locked his quarters as he left, trying not to crumble under
the weight of his disillusionment. "What if we all feel the same way,
and we just need someone to help us talk about it?" he hoped, grasping
at straws. He tried to remember all the people he'd helped as a
priestling. "Maybe we had a net positive effect?" No part of him
actually believed that. As he approached the chamber, two stoich looking
clerks got up to open the doors. "Soli" they whispered in unison. "Sola"
rolled off his tongue. It was strange how natural it felt to be on this
side of the salute.

Inside, the chamber was surprisingly modest: 9 wooden chairs, and a
holodesk. Kali-Sol was the last to arrive. He was surprised to be
greeted by 8 warm smiles. He had pictured something a little more
formal, a little more sterile.

"Welcome Kali-Sol. Thank you for joining us"

**JASMIA**

Jasmia liked going to church. It's where she felt like she belonged. She
didn't particularly like all the rules and the sun worshipping, but it
was the only time all her friends were in one place. Her real friends,
not the ones they forced on her in school.

#sun priest

**CAPRINA**

(Created by Sophia Bush Anderson)

Caprina squirmed. It had been already 48 hours since labour had begun
and still there is no baby. This is why the rest of the world has
switched to the very efficient and reliable Med-bots to do the work of
midwives and doctors. "No one has the patience for this shit anymore"
Caprina thought inwardly as she shifted her weight off of her knees and
rocking back onto her toes. Her feet, arms, knees, neck and back were
all aching after hours of constant support. It's tiring work to be
giving your undivided energetic, physical, mental and emotional
attention to one being for hours and hours, no, days on end. Clearly she
was struggling to remain present now, as the 49th hour was creeping in.

The beginning had always started out the same. The birther is calm,
resting in her bubble of excitement, tranquility and love. They are
resting in their goddess glory, aware of the creation energy floating
around them and sending words of love to their bodies and babies.
Usually Caprina will walk in to find them sitting on their birthing
ball, lights dim, positive mantras, meditative music or some other
hypnobirthing crap playing in the background while the birther bounces,
rocks, sways or sits in meditative silence with a small grin on their
face. Caprina's self sacrificing nature made her want to rush in and
apply, soak and oil all of her love and energy onto the birther upon her
first arrival. But as the hours drift on into the night, it makes it
very difficult for Caprina to continue to offer the same level of
support without also feeling the impact on her body and psyche. No one
is there to look after the support, and rightfully so in this space of
sacred creation. However, Caprina has not learned, even years later, how
to return some of that loving energy back onto herself.

Caprina enters the space with care, understanding that it is her
privilege, not right to be present. She goes in generously, giving
massage and acupressure, heat blankets, ice packs and love to the
birthers vibrating body. It is a dangerous thing to attend a birth not
registered with the state's embryo log. All embryo's now, must be
registered so that the state can begin tracking and enhancing the health
and presumably DNA of these new soon to be infants (or at least, that's
what's been going around the rumour mill). Illegal work like this can
get you demoted to below the blackout line. Midwives caught doing their
work since the bill was passed lost everything.

Gone are the days when birthers trusted in their own powers to bring
their babies into this world. Gone are the days when we thought of
babies as intelligent active participants in the birthing process. We
now see them as dormant parasites, growing helplessly until a
sophisticated carefully programmed Med-bot is scheduled to rescue them
from their 9 month sentence in their walled in cocoon. Once you're
registered in the system, there's no escaping it. The Med-bots incessant
twin, the Sonno-bot, is sent to your house and must remain implanted
into the birthers belly button until after the baby is born so as to
send carefully updated analysis of both birther and babies vitals to the
appointed Med-bot who determines the appropriate day and time of
delivery. Perfectly sanitized, sterile packages are delivered to their
doorstep filled with supplements, supplies, and other predetermined
essential baby garbage. The state controls the whole life making
process---well, everything except conception itself, but there are nasty
rumours floating around about plans in place to control conception as
well. Caprina shutters at the thought, aware of what happened on the
\_\_ floor, when the government began their new state mandated family
planning bill, which turned out to be a horrible coy to sterilize half
of the population.

Everything is predetermined and decided by the centre. No birther need
think twice about the birthing process. It is all automated, and
systematized to provide as little inconvenience as possible. After all,
why should humans suffer through the inhumane process of childbirth
since we've evolved so far as to have artificial intelligence determine
the precise duration of gestation for optimal health? There's no
guessing. No more waiting. Humans are taken out of the equation and in
stepped, or more accurately, glided, the Med-bots.

Caprina had been working as a midwitch --- already on the frays of the
birth world when the changes were implemented years ago. This made it
easier for her to slip into the periphery and watch as many of her
friends working within the hospitals and registered with the
certification boards got assimilated into supporting roles for the
Med-bots (or \_\_ as she liked to call them). The changes made Caprina
shudder. But at least she was able to largely continue her work as
before. Her networks and circles were already underground, very separate
from the mainstream at that point. Her networks had gotten smaller over
the years, and there were fewer and fewer mid witches left, many forced
into hiding after the "Pterodactyl incident" 5 years before. Many were
forced down below the blackout line, where the rules weren't as fiercely
upheld. There, the old ways weren't completely wiped out, and you could
find pockets of knoweldgeholders hiding safely in plain sight.

Caprina sighed. Her work here had become tougher too as the medical
propaganda began to infiltrate the subconscious of most birthers on the
planet. Her job was becoming harder and harder as no one in the city
seemed to trust in their abilities to birth anymore, which made her
countless back rubs, hip squeezes and affirmations futile against the
growing doubt brewing in every birthers subconscious. But how could she
blame them? Caprina had yet to bear her own child. Yet still, with
everything happening she felt like it was more important than ever to
settle into the faithful knowing of our bodies intuitive knowledge.

Stiffly, Caprina shifted again onto her knees so she could apply
pressure to the birthers aching back as she squeezed her hip bones so
that her pelvis could open and pressure would be relieved. "just let
this danged baby come out soon" she thought as she worked hard to steady
her breath and provide a stable and reassuring presence for this
birther. After all, Caprina's work was only to support when asked and
needed. There was one thing that's for sure, with the option for an
easy, streamlined birth just yards away, it sure made the painful task
of giving all of herself to support another for days on end that much
more draining. Not that Caprina would ever take that option herself, nor
would she ever suggest it to any of her clients. But the ease and
simplicity of it grew very attractive in these light and sleepless hours
of day two of labour. "Babies come when babies are ready" Caprina
whispered out loud. "babies know when to come. And when they are ready
your body will open and welcome this baby into the world".

#how does she hide her work from the government?

#upper lowerclass

#hides her work from her family

#"artist" is her cover story with the government. Also nannies.

#Government discovers her secret after she has a baby.

#Childbirth complications?

**MOZRYL**

Mozryl and their family had migrated under the city when they realised
their children were sunstarving to death. For a long while the hope of
help from a sunbank had kept them from doing anything quite so rash, but
Mozryl had reached a point where even incredible rumors of the
subterranean life seemed more realistic than the hope of help from the
government.

All their friends had called them crazy, but these were desperate times.
As the family of 6 wandered the \"tunnels\", Mozryl took care to note
all the tiny creatures that scurried around in the dark. If these tiny
insects could survive in the dark, thought Mozryl, so could this family,
although if they were being honest, they had no idea how they would do
that. After 2 days of wandering in search of a subterraneans society,
they had found only a few scraps of human technology and some ancient
looking artworks, and Mozryl was starting to wonder how deep they would
have to go to find the humans who made them. They would\'ve been he

**PREZZARIO**

Prezzario was snazzy. They liked to dress nice, they liked to think
quick, they liked to talk smooth, but most importantly they were a
fantastic dancer, and they knew it. They were the kinda character that
would put a giant smile on your face, if they didn't annoy the hell
outta you, and every year their natal day shenanigans seemed to get
bigger and bigger, both figuratively and literally. An inexperienced
onlooker might mistake their grandiose ritual, which now spanned an
entire city block, for a devotional celebration of the birth of our
beloved city, which may have been the case if Prezzario's wasn't so busy
tapping into what he considered his most potent superpower: pizzazz.

**IZAROTI**

Izaroti sat shivering in their room. They weren\'t the kind of person to
sit by idly while something was wrong, but they had exhausted all their
options, and their body had started shutting down. This was day 3 with
no heat, and nobody seemed to care about a poor fabricsmith fading away
in the slums of the hundred and seventh floor.

Most of the floor had migrated to the community hall where the combined
body warmth raised the temperature a few degrees, but Izaroti had
allergies, and the thought of being trapped in crowds brought on a
serious anxiety.

**AZAROZ**

Azaroz didn't mean to hurt people, they just had a way of offering
support that left people feeling bleak and miserable. Some might call
them a sceptic, Azaroz thought, others a pessimist. This was a source of
deep internal dissonance and pain for them, because they identified so
badly to be an optimist, and a good person, and the. They wanted to
protect the people they l

**YURIGAMA**

Yurigama was a shape-shifter. The slippery kind. From a very young age
they had developed a proclivity for folding themselves into whatever was
needed in the moment to avoid a tyrannical tirade masquerading as
conversation which their parents perpetually insisted on delivering any
time something deviated from their expected trajectory. Humour was the
first line of defence, but as their civil union began to dissolve,
Yurigama had learned to support their parents with the
"shoulder-to-cry-on" technique. Despite being profoundly inappropriate
for child-parent relationship, it was unfortunately band-aid enough to
get them through the hardest times. Beyond that, they had learned the
"agree-with-everything" technique, and the "keep-your-mouth-shut"
technique, and "vague-non-committal-phrases" technique, and many other
subtle manipulations to maintain peace and balance in their interactions
with other.

After the separation, Yurigama found themselves torn between two worlds,
the elite upper-middle level of their mother's birthright, and the
grungy, blackout-line-teetering lineage of their father. They found
themselves riding the elevator regularly, which for a child is unheard
of, and it is here that they really learned the meat and potatoes of
fitting in. People underestimate the extent to which children listen.
Sometimes Yurigama would become so engrossed in their observations, that
they would get off on the wrong floor and follow people around until
someone caught them and took them back to the elevator.

\...

Now that they were an adult, Yurigama's skillset had become a problem.
They were so good at adapting and becoming other people that they had
lost their sense of self. Their closest relationships often broke down
because how can you trust someone who is constantly becoming a different
person? It didn't help that they were working for the secret police, but
of course, nobody knew about that.

**LOSGATÀ**

Losgata was numbed by the mundanity of this monotonous suburban life
that he had fallen into. As a light-plumber, he had not been destined to
live such a placated life, but having discovered something he wasn't
supposed to know while working what he thought was a regular job, his
options became limited. He understood that when he was offered this
promotion that it wasn't really an offer, and that the alternative was
probably some light-less existence where he would whither away, far from
everyone and everything he loved.

He sat on the porch of his immaculately designed Octalonian, and
wondered whether it was intentional that these cookie-cutter
neighbourhoods dulled the mind into complacent obedience, or whether
that was just a bi-product of having no sense of purpose or direction.
Some days he contemplated throwing a rock through the light-channel,
hoping that it might rupture and need fixing, just to give himself
something to do, but he knew well enough how solid this light-tech was,
and it would take a hell of a lot more than a rock to put a dent it.

Losgata had spent the first decade of his premature retirement
contemplating ways to escape, physically, spiritually, and
metaphorically. At first he had hoped there was some way to slip away,
or get word of the truth to the people who needed to hear it, but
surveillance was thorough, and allegiances here were thick as thieves.
He tried focusing his attention on hobbies, and recreation, and even
learned how to engage in the inane conversations that seemed to
endlessly fascinate these social circles, but wearing your heart of your
sleeve makes you a poor liar, and his attempts at feigned interest
reeked of secret disgust and only made people like him less.

Losgata had become a light-plumber both out of passion, and necessity.
Living below the blackout line, he had always been intrigued by
technology, repairing anything he could get his hands on. When his
little sister was born with a heart condition, he knew his family
wouldn't have enough light-credits to give her the treatment she needed,
so he decided to give her all of his and enlist in the academy, hoping
that he'd be able to find enough ambient light on the job to at least
survive until she was better.

Joining the academy was social suicide below the blackout line, because
everyone knew that those light-techs were the only reason the blackout
line continued to exist as high up as it did; Light-channels diverting
all the natural light, redistributing it around the city as those
upstairs deemed fit. Every year it seems to climb a little higher.
Without the light-techs, saboteurs would make short work of the
infrastructure and bring light back to the slums; maybe there could even
be enough light to send some down to the undergrounds.

**MINGHATI**

Minghati was a stoic. They had sworn off "wanting" at very young age,
after a particularly painful bout of disappointment, and they may have
gone through their whole life this way, if it wasn't for a particularly
tenacious partner who convinced them to see an alternative health
practitioner for a seemingly unrelated life challenge.

Minghati sat in the bare white room

**HRUTI**

Hruti was beginning to find find inner peace. After a life of turmoil
and unnecessary stress, they were relieved to be letting go of the
societal pressures that ruled their life for so long: Obsession with
productivity, acquiring wealth, misguided expectations from
relationships. Who would\'ve thought it would take a pandemic

**RAZCAS**

Razcas was a storyteller.

#becomes important to recording the true aural history of the city

**QUANDILOUP**

Quandiloup often found themselves going round in circles. They had to
make the same mistake 4 or 5 times before a lesson would emerge. Growing
up they copped a lot of flack for it, and in their 20s they had
struggled with some serious low self esteem around this, but their
recent spiritual awakening had bestowed them with a new perspective.

**JOZAHN and CALENDULA**

Jozahn stood on the precipice of life and death. Stood is the strong
word. They had been balancing for months on a tightrope that seemed to
infinity extend into an abyss as they traversed the treacherous waters
of a political landscape that shifted like quicksand, and having
momentarily passed out and lost their balance they now found themselves
crawling, nay, hanging on for dear life, as the metaphorical ropes
started to tear through the final layers of their deeply calloused hand.

Jozahn loved metaphors. It was the only way they could make sense of a
world that seemed to relentlessly invalidate every essence of their
being. From the outside their life looked fine. Almost normal. They
breathed, they worked, they feigned interest in the mundane socializings
that society had decreed the norm. Without the metaphors, how could they
explain to themselves, let alone anybody else, the overwhelming dread
that threatened to explode at a moments notice from every orifice?
Jozahn wondered how many orifices they had. Did the pores in their skin
count as orifices? They started visualizing a bright light exploding out
of every hole in their body and simultaneous eviscerating them and
transforming them into a being of love and light, floating higher and
higher into the sky, but somehow tethered like a kite. And now something
was pulling them down. A light tugging at the ankle sleeve. Jozahn
wished they'd stop. "Let me go" he whispered.

"Hello? Jozahn? Are you awake?" The tugging at the ankle turned out to
be an artifact of "real life", as Jozahn liked to call their waking
life, replete with air quotes and bitter aftertastes. It was so rare to
find compatriots who appreciated their sardonic outlook on life, so
Jozahn had learned to keep their mouth shut. Alas, memory is a twisted
fucker, replaying all your worst nightmares on repeat, and waking the
gremlins of self doubt and alienation so that they may join in the non
consensual penetration of your most vulnerable brainholes. All that to
say, Jozahn was dealing with some shamepain, and was feeling
particularly bitter about it today. A few deep breaths reminded them
that healing is a slow, non-linear process, and that facing the gremlins
is bringing Jozahn one step closer to inner-peace. That's all they
really wanted. Inner-peace.

"Hey!" Their eyes snapped open to reveal Calendula standing over their
chair. "Come on, let's go" "where are we going?" "You're funny. Tuck
your shirt in. Come on." Jozahn drowsily fumbled around in a futile
attempt to compose themselves as Calendula practically dragged them out
the door. \*A meeting? Or maybe a special event? Was I supposed to be
somewhere?\* Jozahn resigned themselves to figuring it out as they went,
winging their way through most of life's meagre offerings. It wasn't
that they were lazy or unorganised, they had just reached a point where
it felt impossible to care. None of it seemed to matter. Jozahn yearned
for a deeper meaning. Something that would ignite the wonder and magic
that they remembered from childhood storytimes. What happened? Where did
that go? Jozahn reached for a memory that didn't exist, hoping to
pinpoint the very moment where that sense of enchantment was lost so
that they could undo the breaking changes and upload the hotfix to patch
the error.

Jozahn found themselves in front of a terminal, typing lines of
scrolling code. That explains the metaphor shift. \*You'd think by now
they'd have figured out a better software-brain interface but I guess
old habits die hard.\* Calendula was watching over their shoulder,
grinning like a waterbear winning a marathon against death. They had
made it their temporary life mission to help Jozahn get out of the hole
they refused to stop digging themselves. It amazed them how Jozahn was
able to perform all these impressive feats of technology with seemingly
only one foot in the sobering world they jokingly called "reality". It
was hard to tell if Calendula wanted to BE jozahn, or be "with" them,
whatever that means. Either way, it seemed like they were acing this job
interview, and might finally get out of the toxic wastehole that was
Rainforest Inc, a deceptively non-rainforest-related enterprise.

Calendula was endlessly grateful for the fateful day when they had first
been assigned to Jozahn. The idea of being stuck with a work-partner for
life had seemed like a death sentence at the time, and Jozahn was about
as disappointing a partner as a young Calendula could have imagined; a
weirdo, with an odd sense of humour, and a permanently patronizing tone
of silence, who didn't seem to possess an ounce of compassion or
understanding. Calendula had cursed the sorting algorithms that thrust
them together. Ironically, a shared disdain for the sorting algorithms
was what helped them overcome their differences and was the beginning of
a very fruitful and lucrative career in "summer time under a palm tree"
levels of shady dealing. Calendula handled all the people stuff, and
Jozahn made the magic happen.

Jozahn really was a magician. There were so many things they could do
well, that they couldn't remember how they'd learned some of them. It's
a shame that despite acquiring so many niche skills, they seemed somehow
unable to internalise some of the basic survival ones. They reluctantly
thanked their lucky stars for a work-partner as stable and competent as
Calendula. It was difficult for Jozahn to accept defeat, especially in
the face of such a mundane task as "understanding people", but if they
were going to fail, there was nobody they would rather have picking up
their slack than Calendula. There were feelings there that Jozahn didn't
understand; A deep attraction that transcended the mundane. Calendula
wasn't just another node in a sea of endless terminals. They were a
person. A spirit. And life had brought them together for some greater
purpose yet to be defined. Jozahn was intending to share these feelings
with Calendula, but somehow over the years, they'd never found the right
words. Some day.

**GLOZLEAR**

Glozlear

A musical about how having your neighborhood rearranged can tear your
life apart\... Not being able to find a place to live, separation from
loved ones, access to services/clients.

A story of one person\'s mission to reach the city gods to convince them
to leave their neighborhood alone\... Fighting through red tape, and
eventually reaching them, but they don\'t care. There\'s too many
factors to consider, and they're doing their best.

**JELZEAL**

Jelzeal repeated the humility mantra to himself as he ascended the final
stairway and took his well-deserved place on the throne at the table of
planners. "\[to do: humility manra\]". It was hard believe that after
only 20 years of dedicated service to the city planning commission he
was able to ascend the ranks to become one of the three head planners.
As an acolyte of the City God, there could be no higher honour. A lesser
devotee would shudder at the responsibility, but Jelzeal's hands were
steady, and his visions clear. He would be the bridge between the people
and the city.

A rift had been growing. It had been many years since a devotee of the
City God had sat at the table of planners, and Jelzeal believed in his
hearts of hearts that the troubles plaguing the city of late were a
punishment for the leaders' irreverence. Jelzeal wondered what penance
could absolve them of their sins, but alas it was not his place to
question. All he could do was honour the City God by living truthfully
and honorably, humbly, with intentionality.

A newly appointed city god, one of the 3 head city planners. His
decisions affect the lives of many. A life-time dream come true, but a
heavy burden

**BRENDALIGN**

Brendalign approached the controls with the grace of caffeinated
rhinoceros, nearly spilling the sample all over the ancient terminal.
She wanted to respect the delicacy of this barely extant equipment that
was so crucial to her work, but alas Brendalign was easily excited and
impulse control was not something that graced her family tree. To be
fair, her work was unprecedented, and a breakthrough of this magnitue
would revolutionise EVERYTHING, so in this particular instance, her
fervour was justified.

\*\[Her work\]

Ever since she was a little girl, she had been obsessed with life. It
all started with her grandmother telling her how she\'s made up of tiny
cells, that all work together, and all the micro-organisms that inhabit
our body in perfect symbiosis. A whole magical universe in the palm of
her hand. Literally.

Since that day Brendalign was all about

\*\[The sample\]

The sample was culmination of

Once, she had tried to

**JUSTICE MANIFESTO OF ASHU DAI**

We, the people of Ashu Dai, come together for the greater good of our
community, to support the transformations necessary for peace and
prosperity. Our objectives, in order of priority are:

a.  A halting of ongoing harm

b.  A feeling of genuine and realistic hope for everyone involved.

c.  A sense of community, belonging and appreciation for everyone
    > involved.

d.  A sense of peace and wellness for everyone involved.

Our strategies for reaching our objectives include:

a.  Brainstorming and creating conditions where individuals are able to
    > take space as needed, and the de-escalation of urgency

b.  Communicating with all parties as needed to understand what has
    > happened and why, without judgement or pressure for action.

c.  Inviting healers and facilitators to brainstorm pathways to peace,
    > and supporting everyone involved in walking the red road.

d.  Planning community events conscientiously, to support all parties
    > involved

e.  Forming committees and creating policies and guidelines as an
    > offering for anyone in the community struggling to navigate
    > tensions or complicated dynamics.

With the intention to seek justice, we strive to:

a.  Do no harm

b.  Take our time

c.  Accept that there are things we cannot change

d.  Develop faith in the process

e.  Validate the importance and significance of our efforts.

f.  Seek support when it is needed.

g.  Hold space for all emotions and expressions to the best of our
    > ability.

h.  Create containers for positive transformation

We identify and acknowledge the following demons (or potential
pitfalls):

a.  the weaponization of words resulting in lateral violence. E.g.
    > "harm", "abuse", "gaslighting", "spiritual-bypassing", "racism",
    > "homophobia".

b.  the obfuscation of authenticity in the shadow of optics; i.e.
    > worrying about what others might think / how something might
    > look/read

c.  the fanatical belief that there is only one version of reality

d.  the intellectualisation of memory

e.  the inexplicable confidence in one's unfaltering ability to
    > interpret what ones body is saying

f.  The illusion of urgency

g.  The corruption of black and white thinking.

We accept the following truths:

a.  We support justice of our own volition, as an act of service.

b.  The wellbeing of a community is the shared responsibility of
    > everyone in the community, and not any one individual

c.  We exist in a colonial patriarchal context, and as such there may be
    > times when our capacity is limited, or our values must face
    > internal conflicts.

d.  "Community" is an abstract concept.

e.  Genuine faith is a product of lived experience, and as such takes
    > time, and cannot be fabricated or scheduled.

f.  Understanding of words is subjective and language is a fundamentally
    > flawed method of communication. Words and meanings evolve over
    > time, and are understood differently by each person.

g.  There are things that we DO not, and CAN not understand.

**HLORIY**

Hloriy was a cynic. They had learned long ago to keep their mouth shut,
but that didn't stop their judgemental thoughts from festering in the
back of them mind, eventually bubbling into a violent rage which they
would express in the privacy of their solitary home. It was better that
nobody see them like this, lest they be accused of being unstable.
Hloriy prided themselves on their reputation as a paragon of stability.

#does elevator maintenance\...4 times a year in the dead of night,
pontificates about how it's all a lie, that people think the blackout
line exists for logistical reason, but it's all just a form of control.
Discovers some major elevator flaw that signals the demise of the city.
Wonders what would happen if he didn't say anything, and then has a head
injury and forgets

does elevator maintenance\...4 times a year in the dead of night,
pontificates about how it's all a lie, that people think the blackout
line exists for logistical reason, but it's all just a form of control.
Discovers some major elevator flaw that signals the demise of the city.
Wonders what would happen if he didn't say anything, and then has a head
injury and forgets

**GLASTA**

Glasta rarely meant to be harsh and unfeeling, but for some reason their
attempts at being kind and caring often seemed to devolve into hostile
dumpster fires. Something about their approach to life seemed to rub
people the wrong way, and they often found themselves having to navigate
an unnecessarily complicated tangled web of human relations, regardless
of how promising things seemed at the outset.

As they sat in the mediation chamber waiting for Galoriy to cool down
from their latest explosion, Glasta wondered if this was just how life
worked. Maybe it's not their fault that people keep flying off the deep
end with them. Maybe this is just what happens when things get messy.

Glasta couldn't help but remember how sweetly they had got along when
they first met. It was such serendipity to meet another shape-shifter
who was willing to break away from the social norm and partake in the
recreational pastime collaborative problem solving.

**HALOYA**

Haloya

**JALZERA AND THE GHOSTS**

Jalzera was a ghost. Not the scary kind that haunts your dream, nor the
special forces kind that comes out of nowhere and makes people
disappear. Not even any of the dead kinds. Just a sweet, kind, loving
neighbourhood ghost. You probably wouldn't remember them if you'd met,
although I can't imagine how you could possibly forget, but it happens
every time and again. The only reason I remember is because I was lucky
enough to have them take me to the other side. See, there's a certain
way of being that allows you to become invisible to the nonsense drama
that seems to dominate humanity's awareness. a way to dodge the vortices
that suck you into neverending broken record stories. It takes
discipline. And a certain amount of faith. But at the core of it, anyone
could get there. Unlike the shapeshifters who disappear by fitting in,
the ghosts™ disappear by choosing not to play. They keep their attention
on what's important, and learn to swiftly leave the room when their
drama senses start tingling. Some might say their lives are boring, but
I know better. I think their lives are happier. More peaceful.

**RASCHIELIEM**

**RAZULGAI**

Razulgai could have lived a perfectly ordinary life devoid of chaos and
unnecessary dramatics had it not been for an inexplicable paradox that
burned inside their soul, for you see, Razulgai was a hopeless romantic.
Despite their fierce independence, which they cherished more than
anything in the world (to the point of seeming misanthropic), they
couldn't seem to make peace with a yearning of the heart: to be swept up
in the throws of deep infatuation. As a yearning it was profoundly
incompatible with what they knew to be true about themselves, but no
matter how much they reminded themselves how much they loved to be
alone, they could not satisfy the calling of the heart.

There's a deep peace in living alone, not depending on anybody for your
basic human needs. Razulgai had crafted an existence for themselves that
was entirely self-sufficient, a fact that is rather extraordinary
considering they lived in a police state city full of watchful eyes.
Indeed, it may have been impossible except for a fortuitous blueprint
error Razulgai had stumbled upon during a routine inspection. Probably
dating back to the construction era, it was hard to believe that such a
place existed; a marvel to behold; an entire city sector, untouched for
hundreds of years, and not a single map revealed it's location

**GVESPA**

Gvespa would have been a prolific maker were it not for their crippling
indecision and anxiety. There was so much they wanted to create, so many
ripe ideas, buried under a blanket of despair and self loathing. It
wasn't that they didn't know how to manifest their desires (they were a
venerable warehouse of knowledge), nor that they lacked the motivation
to create, it's just that at some point in their life they had learned
that inspiration leads to suffering, internalized it so deeply that now
their body just automatically seemed to shut down any time they had a
good idea. No, not inspiration. Wanting. For you see, deep down, they
wanted so badly to create, to express themselves, to tell the stories of
their life, and a lifetime of failure had compounded into a self doubt
that can only be described as a tragedy. It's a crime that humanity was
deprived of the brilliance that Gvespa had to offer. Perhaps it was just
patience they were lacking, or the ability to focus. You know, it's hard
to say why Gvespa was struggling. They often wondered that themselves.

But Gvespa was not one to give up trying. They stared at the largely
blank page that sat in front of them and reread the same line for the
15th time.

'Just like everyone I know, I was born.'

"Poetic", they thought out loud. Where better to start than at the
beginning. Well, actually, lots of places. But you have to start
somewhere. Or maybe you don't. Maybe you don't have to write anything at
all. Who's gonna read it anyway?

Gvespa had gotten pretty good at catching thought patterns like that
early on. Unfortunately, putting a stop to them proved more challenging.
They were like a poison, releasing an unstoppable ennui. Indeed, already
Gvespa could see themselves turning off the screen and curling up in
bed.

**TARTARAMA**

Tartarama's pursuit of balance had brought them to a healthy place, one
that they hoped to maintain for the rest of their life. After an
explosive childhood of swinging from extreme to extreme, Tartarama found
themselves blazing through a midlife crisis at 19, and they surely would
have fallen off some proverbial cliff had it not been for the
transformational breakdown which engulfed them after the unfortunate
death of their first born child. Perhaps it was the grief that exposed
the true nature of their volatility, or maybe some form of misplaced
guilt. But one way or another, their world stopped, and the puzzle
pieces got re-shuffled. A new cast of characters entered the scene,
leaving room for new possibilities.

In the living of it, Taratarama learned to drive their life like a car,
learning to value second and third gear as constantly alternating
between first and fifth gives you whiplash. Spending so much time with
foreigners taught them to say what they mean, and because their
wellbeing depended on their support, Tartarama also learned to mean what
they say. No more waving words around like a feather duster. No more
suspiciously ambiguous provocations. And much to their surprise,
Tartarama discovered that they had, in fact, a wonderful sense of
humour. It's amazing how much life can change when you let it. Of
course, Taratarama wasn't perfect. They still had occasional outbursts,
and breakdowns. And they surely missed the dramatics. But on the whole,
their life was kinder. Simpler. More in line with who they wished to be.

As they stared at the anxious pilgrim that stood in front of them, they
wondered what affliction had brought them to this sanctuary. Perhaps
they too were finding that their life was falling apart. Tartarama
smiled, the warmest he could muster, and welcomed the pilgrim to their
quarters. Shmuli-ka, their name tag said. Tartarama wanted to tell them
it was all going to be alright, but it was a day of silence at the
temple, so a warm hug would have to do. They could tell that Shmuli-ka
wasn't used to being touched by the way they flinched, but they also
knew, from personal experience, how much a hug from an acolyte could
change the shape of your day.

It's not often that the pilgrims choose to stay at the temple, and those
who do often don't stay long. Their visions send them all across the
city to help in ways that they couldn't possibly have imagined, so it
was strange that Tartarama was still here after all these years. But who
were they to judge? They secretly hoped to stay here forever, avoiding
the calamity of returning to the mundane world, but they knew that
eventually that day would come, and their skills would be put to the
test. All the tools they'd learned, all the rituals, to maintain those
in the real world, that's the real challenge

**??????**

(By Heather Fraser)

Here, beneath a cloak-like covering of moss, the secret beings dwell.
For nearly half a century, we have remained hidden from and unknown by
others. When we disappeared, inhabitants of the city and refugee camps
knew only of a reconnaissance mission that went foul, from which nobody
returned. In truth, a careful strategy was devised to forge a new way
forward, based on ancient wisdom, in harmony with the elements and in
the absence of limitations imposed by corrupt rulers of the city.

After three years of clandestine meeting of six elders, a plan was
hatched for a group of 26 to make a fresh start and survive elsewhere,
though of course under the guise of it being a mission to conduct
research about outlying areas in hopes of improving quality of life in
the city. The crew of 26 comprised the six elders, whose wisdom and
intuitive powers would be beneficial in scrutinizing for their potential
resources. The other 20 included experts in specific fields, ranging
from engineering, architecture and waste management to nutrition,
medicine and agriculture. We intentionally included a broad distribution
of healthy people with varying skill sets and age ranges, including one
very brave pregnant woman, Alice.

I will never forget her piercing blue eyes and how she could throw a
sharp sideways glance before you even knew you were in trouble. But full
of love was her heart, and she longed to honour her departed beloved by
offering a different future for their child ... one where they could be
free to dance in the rain and bathe in the sun, to sing the song of
their soul and offer their gifts in this life. She, just like the others
who agreed to this mission, longed to feel the wind caress her hair and
be a child of the universe once again.

Although I was too young to see first-hand how it all began down here, I
have learned over the years that the approach is to use existing organic
matter for filtration of both sunlight and water. There is also a deep
observation of nature and it's patterns in order to notice what (and
when) is available and not over-use it. Nature has taught us how to
enjoy clean drinking water, to harness sunlight beneath the surface of
the earth, and most importantly, how to be good to one another and
honour ourselves deeply at the same time.

Although there is struggle, both on an individual level and as a group,
there is also much kindness and caring in response to unique and
collective challenges. This might even be the very feature of our
existence that allows us to thrive, especially when viewed in contrast
with how things operate in "the city".

Here, embedded in the earth, observing and dancing with malleability and
modifying our ways according to hers, we are alive and fully so. Our
population has shifted along with nature's adaptations, and she is the
teacher of our teachers. When our ears are like the open petals of a
flower, listening to all the raindrops and not just those falling
directly upon us, does life's wisdom distill. Through an osmosis of
understanding offered by the nuances of all seasons, have we ripened to
this abundance.

Living in the fullness of life and allowing her to be our eternal
teacher, we have sacred ceremonies ... to invoke receptivity, to express
our divine nature, and to merge with the mystery of existence. These
lived experiences, which extend beyond the mundane, are our greatest
means to access the wisdom inherent within and all around. Our task is
to have ears to hear and eyes to see, which is somehow a combination of
attentive awareness and a surrender in noticing (relinquishing any
expectation of what is to be seen).

This orientation towards reality is difficult, or even impossible, to
teach. Either the student is ripe, or is not ready to blossom. The
flower cannot be pulled from the roots towards the sun, it must open in
it's own time, with the right conditions. Just as the flower, so with
the human; we are most beautiful when we are most vulnerable and we
shine out our fullness as we are ready to perish. And the conditions are
not always favourable - Sometimes sunshine, other times wind and rain.
Thriving results from facing both the favourable and unfavourable, and
thankfully life is generous in all circumstances.

My Mom didn't write what she knew, but somehow imparted it to those with
whom she interacted. Her legacy is not in money or in a museum, but felt
in the hearts of those she encountered, who were uplifted by her
contact, understanding and deep permission. Even as a child, I felt
accepted in my imperfection and in my failings. Tenderness was her
wellspring and life offered many occasions for her to tap into her depth
and show deep love.

When life did not offer what she had hoped for, she embodied wisdom even
more fully ... somehow flowing with more grace in the rapids than in
still water, so they say. This is part of my lineage and I hope in this
lifetime to offer full expression to all our ancestors' dreams, knowing
they did not have opportunity to do so. All their aspirations, their
voices, and their fears live on in the cells of my being; may life help
heal their wounds and honour their deepest needs. Death is but a
transition from being seen to being remembered; existence persists and
transcends the boundaries of our perception.

This is a love-note to my Mom, Alice, and to all my ancestors ... I know
you had courageous hearts and led the way to this moment. Thank you and
may we be liberated together.

Originally, secret beings were selected based on known abilities and
areas of expertise that would help the new colony get established and
survive. Though in my case, potential contribution was of course a
mystery. Although I am still not certain, it seems that I am meant to
hear and share messages from life-forms that are not visible/do not
speak to most people.

It was my Mom who helped attune my ears to the messages carried on the
wings of fairies. One early morning, before dawn, when I was about four
years old, she awoke me for our first expedition into the magical
forest. Along the partially moonlit path, beauty and a feeling of
belongingness invited an intuitive trust in the body's ability to
navigate rugged terrain in the absence of full view. As we rarely
experience, or permit to allow unfold in our senses, the third eye can
perceive reality more clearly than the naked eye.

I didn't see them at first, but after a moment of pause in this
beautiful, cozy hollow surrounded by foliage, emerged these tiny flying
beings that are illuminated from the inside. In this moment, I remember
noticing the calmness of my mother, how her face was so gentle and soft.
She did not move, so I remained still. I cannot describe the feeling of
elation that arose as these delightfully mysterious beings appeared and
approached us. I was so captivated, it is as if reality were unfolding
outside of time, or beyond my experience of it.

My mom did not give any instruction, verbal or otherwise, though as we
remained in stillness together immersed in this moment, something truly
magical happened. The fairies whispered in the mist, knowing that our
glimpse of reality is partial and our suffering complete:

"The magic of life dawns in the darkness

Where you are lost and then found

Fully facing that you are no thing

But the very Love that you have sought

Ever expressing eternity

in the spaces between"

Nobody knew, save maybe the fairies, that Alice would not survive long
in the new colony. As it turns out, this expedition/experiment didn't
favour all equally in the end, though I know my Mom would not have made
that the measure of success. She was giant-hearted and offered her best,
even if to her own peril. By this example, she taught me to allow myself
to be vulnerable and to care so much that willingness to completely
surrender is more natural than the will to survive.

After she was gone, sometimes I couldn't tell up from down, and these
were the scariest of days. But I knew what she would tell me ... to
trust the wind, and let it carry me. As it turns out, this was the only
reminder I really needed.

A glint of sparkle, a hint of hope, a whisper of a promise from someone
I love ... and life is alive.

.

ESTAREKAMA

Estarekama had