---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Schteril]] was always sick. Their whole life the medbots couldn't identify
the cause of the recurring illness, every year they kept trying.
Schteril spent half their days in a foggy dream-like state while their
body fought off various viruses and infections.

The first 25 years of their life were an uphill battle. Schteril felt
broken, like nothing was working for them. They resented their illness.
They were bitter about the fact that everyone around them seemed to be
enjoying life and that they couldn't.

But recently something new was afoot in Schteril's life. In their
endless pursuit of healing they had come across rumours of some ancient
medicines, the kind that would get in trouble with the government.
Schteril was generally very dedicated to acting lawfully because their
life so directly depending on the government and the medical system, but
desperation led them to taking greater and greater risks.

That is how Schteril found themself riding the elevator down to the
bottom floor. They had heard horror stories about life on the lower
levels, but nothing could prepare them for what they found down here.
Poverty looks nothing like how you expect it to. Schteril felt an
overwhelming sense of privilege. Personal space down here was
nonexistent, and the feeling of despair and decay formed a thick cloud
in the air. Schteril's first impulse was to turn around and head back
home, but the prospect of turning their life around plucked carelessly
on their heartstrings.

In an unmarked alley, between a scrap store and a day-shelter, Schteril
found what they were looking for. It didn't look like much, but stepping
into this strange apothecary, Schteril could feel that there was
something special about this place. It was the smallest store one could
imagine; you'd be hard pressed to fit 5 people inside the door. Schteril
was greeted by a stoich looking face that gave no reaction to the
appearance of a potential customer. For a few moments Schteril quietly
perused the wall of unmarked bottles, and then just as they opened their
mouth to speak, a soft chuckle broke the silence.

"I know why you're here"

"You do?"

"Everyone comes here for the same reason"

"I doubt that"

"Most do"

Schteril wasn't sure what to think.

"Can you help me?"

"Only you can help yourself"

"How?"

"You choose"

Schteril followed the outstretched hand which led them back to the wall
of unmarked bottles

"But they all look the same?"

"Everyone journey is different, but they all lead to the same place"

"How do I choose?"

"Only you can decide that"

Schteril was fighting an internal battle. The cynic in them was yelling
"this is stupid", but something in their body told them that this
bizarre human giving them cryptic instructions was special, and in the
end they decided that they had nothing to lose at this point, so they
ran their hands along the wall, trying to imagine how they might choose
a bottle.

At first they had thought that the bottles all looked the same, but upon
closer inspection they realised that there was something unique about
each one, something they couldn't quite put their finger on. They
stepped back as far as the little store allowed and tried to take in the
whole wall at once.

To their great surprise, Schteril felt like some of the bottles were
starting to glow, like they were somehow special.

"Do I have to choose just one?"

"There are no wrong answers"

Schteril picked up the 5 bottles that were, by this point, feeling
iridescent and placed them on the counter.

"How much for these?"

"That's not how this works. We can talk about that after we're finished"

"Finished what?"

"So many questions"

As Schteril watched the door being locked behind them, they decided to
accept what was happening and stop doubting everything.
