[[Dr Swanson]] always remained calm in emergencies. It was a gift. From a
young age, they remembered dealing with hysterical adults running around
like headless chooks. Swanson somehow managed to maintain a cool head.

As they pondered the situation in front of them, Swanson observed the
bystanders who were both concerened for the bleeding youth laying here
and frightened of attracting attention from the authorities lest their
little sanctuary become a target of the next Raid. Every few weeks the
[[King of Q]] would send a squad of Gender detectives or some other
insidious officials to terrorise some poor village and set an example
for the masses.

"You did the right thing to call me. This is a unique injury, and
requires carefully attention. Did you tell anyone else about this?" "No"
"Good. Do you have somewhere we can take them?" "No. I don\'t even know
them" "where are we? I think I have a friend\...ok let\'s go. Also, I\'m
going to need some supplies. Do you think you can find these things?"

Swanson took the nod as a yes and hurried to pick up the bleeding
adolescent. "You\'re going to be ok. I\'m going to take you to a safe
place and we\'re gonna sew up the open wounds, and then I\'m gonna take
a look and make sure there\'s no internal damage, ok?" Swanson wasn\'t
sure if this was a hate crime or a botched operation, but the thought of
either made them really mad.

"What\'s your name kid?"

"Ali"

"I need you to take these. They\'re gonna make it feel a little better
and help with the bleeding. When\'s the last time you had Sun?

" 2 weeks"

"Dammit. You\'ve been saving up haven\'t you?"

"They said it would be painless. Over in 12 hours"

"I\'m so sorry kid. Here, put this on. I can\'t operate until your Sun
count reaches 13. You\'re not allergic to anything?"

"I get Sun spots on my arms, but that\'s it I think"

"That\'s just the toxins they dump in the air here. How long have you
lived here?"

"My whole life"

"You were born here? That\'s rough"

"Doc, is it bad?"

"I don\'t know yet."

"If I die, can you throw me in the river? I don\'t want the others to
have to deal with me"

"You\'re not gonna die. I\'ve got you"

Ula burst in with supplies. "You got everything on the list?" "No. I
couldn\'t find any of the organics. But I got replicas?" "It\'ll have to
do. Well done. Sun count\...12. almost ready to go. Clear the table.
Make sure nobody comes in."

#gets caught/framed. Faces trial. Guilty.

#terminally ill. Cancer?
