Ula sat by the door while the doctor operated. 3 hours. No news yet.
This always happened to them. Ula seemed to attract disaster. If
something was going to break or someone was going to get hurt, it was
always when Ula was there. Their mother used to say they were cursed
with a witches sense. Always knew when something was gonna go down.
"Ula. I need a hand".

Ula first met the doctor on their 17th birthday when their step-father
had a sudden heart attack. Down here that usually meant you were going
to die, but by some miracle, someone at the party called in a favor and
suddenly the doctor was here. Back then, Ula was convinced the curse
meant that everything was their fault. When Doctor Swanson heard this
hypotheses they laughed and said "you're gonna make a great healer some
day, if you can let go of those superstitions."

Ula held the dividers in place while they watched this medical wizard
cast precise spells. They were fascinated by the docs steady hand and
confident motions. "will you teach me how to do that?" "No" "someday?"
"Maybe. focus on your hands. You know, you really do have gift" "its a
curse" " where did you find this one?" "She was puttering around at the
Quinn, and I was feeling defiantly brave so I said hi" "she goes by
she?" " Sometimes. Hasn\'t decided yet." "Did you know About the
surgery?" "I only met her twice. Never said a word about surgery" "you
really have a knack for finding the ones that need help" "I wouldnt call
it a knack." "A sense" "a curse" "Ula, you gotta let go of that curse
business. Can you imagine what you could do if your embraced this
incredible ability that you have? You could pioneer an entirely need
field of preemptive medicine." "I don\'t want everything and everyone I
love to die because of me." "it\'s not because of you. You just happen
to appear when these things arise."why won\'t you teach me to save
lives?" "Because I don\'t have time" "liar" "because Im not allowed to"
"you\'re also not allowed to perform this kinda surgery on queer people,
but you do it anyway" "fine. It\'s because I don\'t know how to teach."
"That\'s ok. I\'ll teach you. I\'m good at teaching." "Hahaha. Ula. How
did you end up in my life" "look, she\'s waking up!"

"Ali?"

#becomes a healer / doula / hospice worker?

#learns to operate from Swanson when they are unable due to health
reasons.

\#
Ula sat by the door while the doctor operated. 3 hours. No news yet.
This always happened to them. Ula seemed to attract disaster. If
something was going to break or someone was going to get hurt, it was
always when Ula was there. Their mother used to say they were cursed
with a witches sense. Always knew when something was gonna go down.
"Ula. I need a hand".

Ula first met the doctor on their 17th birthday when their step-father
had a sudden heart attack. Down here that usually meant you were going
to die, but by some miracle, someone at the party called in a favor and
suddenly the doctor was here. Back then, Ula was convinced the curse
meant that everything was their fault. When Doctor Swanson heard this
hypotheses they laughed and said "you're gonna make a great healer some
day, if you can let go of those superstitions."

Ula held the dividers in place while they watched this medical wizard
cast precise spells. They were fascinated by the docs steady hand and
confident motions. "will you teach me how to do that?" "No" "someday?"
"Maybe. focus on your hands. You know, you really do have gift" "its a
curse" " where did you find this one?" "She was puttering around at the
Quinn, and I was feeling defiantly brave so I said hi" "she goes by
she?" " Sometimes. Hasn\'t decided yet." "Did you know About the
surgery?" "I only met her twice. Never said a word about surgery" "you
really have a knack for finding the ones that need help" "I wouldnt call
it a knack." "A sense" "a curse" "Ula, you gotta let go of that curse
business. Can you imagine what you could do if your embraced this
incredible ability that you have? You could pioneer an entirely need
field of preemptive medicine." "I don\'t want everything and everyone I
love to die because of me." "it\'s not because of you. You just happen
to appear when these things arise."why won\'t you teach me to save
lives?" "Because I don\'t have time" "liar" "because Im not allowed to"
"you\'re also not allowed to perform this kinda surgery on queer people,
but you do it anyway" "fine. It\'s because I don\'t know how to teach."
"That\'s ok. I\'ll teach you. I\'m good at teaching." "Hahaha. Ula. How
did you end up in my life" "look, she\'s waking up!"

"Ali?"

#becomes a healer / doula / hospice worker?

#learns to operate from Swanson when they are unable due to health
reasons.

\#
