---
dg-publish: true
---
[[Zoli]] felt out of place in such a prestigious establishment. They'd
never been above the blackout line, let alone in the university
district. They still weren't quite sure what they were doing here. One
minute they were hacking together random scraps of biotech debris, the
next some clown with a briefcase was offering them a scholarship to some
fancy school.

At first Zoli said no. They had no business up there with the ignorant
"elite". Everyone they cared about lived down here, and they weren't
about to leave them all behind. It was something that [[Marietta]] said that
convinced them to go. Marietta was Zoli's mother. "Go" she said "and
learn everything they can teach you. Everything there is to know. And
then you come back, you hear me? Come back, and use that knowledge to
help me turn this place around."

Since they were a preteen, Zoli had worked at the [[Plaza]], Marietta's
"everything" store that sold everything from food to furniture to
various repair services, and sometimes doubled as a hostel / sports bar
/ multipurpose room rental. It was the bane of their existence, and Zoli
was just about ready to run away from home when they discovered the
revolutionaries, who needed a place to meet, and offered a new
perspective on life flush with a sense of community and a reason to wake
up each morning. It was this commradery that Zoli was thinking about
when they decided to go to university.

If they could just learn the secrets behind the lifesustaining
technology that kept this city alive, they could break away and start
something new. A haven for anyone who has fallen through the cracks, or
been abused by the system. It was a long shot, but it was so much more
than they could do stuck down here.
