INDEX

1)  Trauma Puzzle Game (2017)

2)  Talking to your parts (2020)

3)  Musical RPG (2014)

4)  Spirits (2020)

5)  Climate Action Warriors (2019)

6)  Water Fight

7)  Twin rulers.

    a.  Turn based city management

    b.  You take turns governing a city, and developing support for your
        > faction

8)  Talented Orphan (circa 2013)

9)  Oxygen bubble

10) Evolution

11) Rape culture

12) Tribe

13) Social Media Alternate Reality

14) The Watch

[[TRAUMA PUZZLE
GAME]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qzOmHduS-82Y9KAyn7f6i2StX0UeOX4IzGqXSyWz0M8/edit)

A puzzle game where the challenges are the literal manifestations of the
metaphors that people use to talk about trauma; feeling "cloudy",
storms, glazing over, putting up walls, floating away, freezing,
monsters, ghosts, mirroring, reflecting, a maze, floor falling out from
under you, grey, black, dark,

Voice-over talks about lived experiences of trauma as you engage with
each step of the puzzle (a la bastion)

[[TALKING TO YOUR
PARTS]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T_CNt_9g2-yShm5D0UGjDGP94FyKJAR5gG20zhEyaoI/edit)

A game about talking to your parts inspired by parts work therapy.

A puzzle platformer where you're trying to unite your parts.

MUSICAL RPG

A musical RPG. All the musical theatre has gone from the world. You are
recruited into a travelling musical theatre company attempting to
discover the reason behind this loss of music. You can choose to
specialise in one or several of four fields : performance (acting
singing dancing), instrumental (brass, woodwind, strings, rhythm
section), tech (lighting, sound, AV, stage management), Creative
(Writing, composing, directing, PR/advertising, management).

As you traverse the world spreading music everywhere you go, you
discover clues (such as the fact that disney has slowly been buying the
rights to all music theatre) that lead you to disney headquarters. After
fighting through some bureaucracy, you end up breaking into the chamber
of walt disney himself, who is on life support. He tells you that he's
been trapped in this chamber for years. You unplug him from life support
which turns out to be sedative. He joins your party and you pursue the
real villains who have been holding him captive\...Hitler? the queen of
England?

A classic hack n slash RPG, except instead of fighting, you make
performance.

SPIRITS

A game where you help spirits communicate with humans.

[[Climate action
warriors]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bDVy6NT68NTNl25Ve_-C3L4IIQoYVHIE0xAD0lMTOaA/edit)

Help humanity survive the climate catastrophe. What role will you take?
Will you build networks and connect people and resources? Will you fight
on the front line? Will you become a leader and make decisions? Will you
collect knowledge?

The land people, boat people, the sky people, the star people, the
burrow people, deep sea people,

WATER FIGHT

TWIN RULERS

A town management game where each player takes turns trying to steer the
town to meet their personal goals.

TALENTED ORPHAN

A talented orphan draws picture in an attempt to deal with the hardships
of his life. You play through the surreal world of his imagination,
dealing with the puzzles and horrors he conjures up. The way you finish
each level affects the orphan's personality, and what the next levels
are like. E.g. you could fail to deal with the fact that he blames
himself for the death of his parents\...in which case the subsequent
levels will have a stronger emphasis on guilt, and murder. You won't be
able to deal with everything, so you'll have to choose and balance which
problems you deal with in each level. The game could have multiple
endings e.g. orphan becomes a junkie, or orphan becomes highly
successful and starts his own orphanage.

An artsy indie game focused on story

3\) You work in an office where things are not as they seem. You start
by doing boring jobs but then things get crazy!

OXYGEN BUBBLES

All the oxygen in the world is gone, and everyone lives in bubbles. You
desperately seek a way to restore the earth to its former state.
Puzzle/Adventure game

Evolution

Real time strategy / Role playing game where you choose which way your
species evolves. You start as a simple organism floating around.
Suddenly, the game gives you some sort of stimulus e.g. the climate gets
hotter. You then have a choice how to respond to this stimulus; e.g. you
could grow thermal skin, or you could develop a system to regulate your
body temperature. The game gets more complex as you have to respond to
multiple stimuli at once, but only have a certain amount of change that
you can achieve. Eventually you grow into a sentient being and start
developing altruistic tendencies. Suddenly, you become a hive mind and
you become one with the earth. Campaign mode you have levels that guide
your development in the same way that history developed. Skirmish mode
you can create new non existant species\
\
Alternatively, A chemistry game where you start as a hydrogen atom, and
end up as a single cell organism

Stylistically inspired by the games "osmos", "Doodle God" and "Eufloria"

Rape Culture game

You play as a university student in social environments. You can see
into the future and into the past of the people you interact with, but
only after you make decisions that affect their lives. There are many
things that you can get away with, but it feels gross.

TRIBE

a game where you\'re seeking your "tribe". You go to different lands,
interact with the people there. A 4D game, the aim of the game is to
find people who exist in all dimensions with you

SOCIAL MEDIA ALTERNATE REALITY

10\) Social Justice Game : Alternate Reality

4 lands:

-   Climate Change

-   Wealth inequality

-   Prejudice (gender, sexuality, race, language, aesthetics)

-   Sustainability

You progress by social justice sharing statuses on facebook

THE WATCH

You control a magical watch that can control the tempo of the world (and
music). It can also go back to a previous time

Some objects are unaffected by time

The Inventor (who invented the watch) keeps popping up at various points
(because he can time travel to older versions of himself) and giving you
either advice or revealing more story.

The Watch can adjust an object's "Resonance" (a musical loop) using its
"Resonator". It can also change the tempo of the world.

Moral of the game: just because something is different, doesn't mean
it's bad.

-   at the start you're trying to make all the sounds harmonious. Later
    > you realise that they already were, you just weren't listening to
    > them right\...

STORY

-   Before "The Watch", all sound was chaos (noise). Enough chaos, and
    > your brains starts to block it out (you have a control that can
    > block out sound). You can make music, but it's only as temporary
    > as the act of making it.

-   When The Inventor created The Watch, humanity rejoiced. They started
    > to make everything sound harmonious permanently. There was a
    > Mysterious Terrorist group that resisted this change calling it
    > unnatural, but they disappeared as mysteriously as they appeared.

-   Eventually everything became so uniform, that "The Uniformity" was
    > noise. Humanity set about trying to fix everything back to the old
    > ways, but it was too late (everything sounded like a variation on
    > The Uniformity). They couldn't remember anything except The
    > Uniformity.

-   The Inventor devised a plan. He revealed to you that The Watch could
    > reverse time if you set it to a negative tempo (your brain would
    > go back to where you were at that time, but with added knowledge).
    > However, no matter how far back you go, humanity always reached
    > the same outcome. They just could not be convinced that The
    > Uniformity was a bad thing until it was too late. And no matter
    > how he tried, he couldn't un-invent The Watch; someone would alway
    > re-invent it. So he would send you back in time to enlist the
    > Mysterious Terrorist Group to record all the original Resonances
    > of every object and hide them until the time was right.

-   Finally

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   A watch appears in your room. You are confused, and after asking
    > around to see if it belongs to anyone, you decide to keep it.
    > Eventually you discover that it was sent back in time to prevent
    > chaos.

-   The guy who invented "The Watch" sends it back in time and gives you
    > the watch (which is unaffected by time). You gradually discover
    > that the corporation who invented the watch was planning on using
    > it to control all

-   Characters teach you songs.

ANCESTORS

Deal with life by calling in the spirits of your ancestors. Each one has
melodies that you learn in order to invite them to join you.

A game mechanic where you write diary entries in order to level
up\...the "knowing yourself" skill

A game where you choose what you play based on what's happening in your
life.

GAME MECHANICS

-   Verbs

    -   Seek/Find

    -   Collect

    -   Combine

    -   Explore/Discover

    -   Build/Make

    -   Avoid

    -   Communicate

    -   Understand

    -   Remember

    -   Decide

    -   Calculate

    -   Observe/notice

    -   Sort/Clean/Make order from chaos, rearrange

    -   Break/Destroy

    -   Control/Operate (including guns, vehicles, tools)

    -   Imagine??? /Invent, alter reality

    -   Practice?? Exercise

    -   Learn

    -   Play??

-   

TYPES OF GAMES

Action games

-   Platformer (a la mario)

-   Shooter (a la doom)

-   Fighting (a la mortal combat)

-   Beat em up (a la bastion)

-   Stealth (a la batman)

-   Survival (a la hello neighbour)

-   Rhythm (a la guitar hero)

Adventure games

-   Text adventure (choose your own adventure)

-   Visual novels ()

-   Point and click (sam and max)

-   

Role-playing games

-   Action rpg (diablo)

-   Roguelike / Roguelite

-   

Simulation games

-   Construction and management (simcity)

-   Vehicle sim / Medical sim

-   Life Simulation (the sims, second life)

-   Social simulation (dating game)

Strategy games

-   Turn-based tactics (ufo)

-   Tower defense (plants vs zombies)

-   RTS (starcraft)

-   

Sports games

-   Racing (starwars pod racer)

-   Team sports (fifa)

Puzzle games

-   Logic games (tetris, maze)

-   

Idle games

How To Engage Players

1.  Mystery

2.  Mastery

3.  Mental Challenge

4.  Narrative

5.  Novelty

6.  Flow

Interaction Design

-   Actions that we do in real life

    -   Move

    -   Think

        -   Plan

        -   Group / stereotype

    -   Eat

    -   Dance (move in time to other stimuli)

-   Feelings / human moments

    -   

-   Conflicts

    -   Wants vs needs

    -   Living beyond means

    -   

-   Themes

    -   Listen and advise

    -   

    -   

How do we tie social justice into games?

-   Climate Change

-   Wealth inequality

-   Prejudice (gender, sexuality, race, language, aesthetics)

-   Sustainability

A Dramatic Changes showcase app.

-   A list of issues

-   Ways people can help

-   Watch our movies in the app?

THINGS IN A WORLD

-   Architecture

    -   Walls

    -   Windows

    -   Doors

    -   Crown moulding / baseboard

    -   HVAC

    -   Lights

    -   Sinks

    -   bath/shower

    -   Toilet

    -   Light switches

-   Kitchen

    -   Food, containers, trash, compost,

    -   Trash cans, and trash bags

    -   Fridge

    -   oven/stove

    -   Kitchen utensils

        -   Pans, pots, spatulas, cutlery, bowls and plates, mugs and
            > cups

        -   Mixer, grinder, sandwich press, toaser

    -   

-   Tools

    -   Musical instruments

        -   Guitar, piano, trumpet, clarinet, cello, bass,

        -   Amps, speakers (big and small), headphones, turntable

    -   Building and construction tools

        -   Hammer, saw, nails, screws, screwdrivers, allen keys,
            > toolbox,

    -   Washing machine / dryer

    -   Vacuum, mop, broom, bucket, basin, soap,

    -   Electronics

        -   Computer, laptop, phone, ipad, ipod, headphones

    -   Transport

        -   Cars, bikes, rollerblades, skateboard, cart

-   Clothing

    -   Shoes, pants, shirts, socks, underwear, hats, scarves and
        > mittens,

    -   earrings , jewelry, makeup, hair pins, headbands, bracelets,
        > rings, Nail clippers, file, nail polish,

    -   Backpack, laptop bag, breifcase, suitcase, hair brush, hair
        > straitener

    -   Sewing machine, pins, safety pins, buttons, thread, pin cushion,

-   Furniture

    -   Chairs

    -   Couches

    -   Tables

    -   Shoeracks

    -   Benches

    -   Shelves

    -   Bed

    -   

-   Decorations

    -   Curtains

    -   Mirrors

    -   Posters

    -   Carpets / rugs

    -   Throws, pillors, blankets

    -   Fairy lights

    -   Flowers

    -   Push pins

-   Stationary

    -   Books

    -   pens/pencils, crayons,

    -   Paints, brushes, pallettes

    -   Rulers, protractors, compass, etc

    -   

-   Nature

    -   Animals

        -   4 legged

        -   Birds

        -   Fish

        -   Invertibrae ( Worms, Squid, Spiders and Insects)

        -   

        -   

    -   Plants

        -   Trees

        -   Grass

        -   Bushes

        -   Crops

        -   Flowers

        -   Mushrooms

    -   Landscape

        -   Cliffs

        -   Rivers

        -   Mountains

        -   Rain / Snow

-   

UNREAL MARKETPLACE STUFF

STUFF

-   Water material

-   **Toolshed Props**

-   **Stylised desert**

-   Steampunk props

-   **Small ANimal behaviour pack: squirels and rabbits**

-   Quadruped fantasy creatures

-   Liquid materials

-   Procedural nature pack (heavy)

-   **Portals**

-   Poly Pixel freebie

-   Poly art wolf

-   Open world demo

-   Ocean floor level

-   **Modular seaside town**

-   Modular cliffs

-   Modular sci fi 1 + 2

-   Modular poly RPG heroes

-   Modular building set

-   Medieval dungeon level

-   MCO mocap basics

-   Melee weapon pack

-   Landscape backgrounds - awesome

-   Isometric interiors

-   Kenny nl platformer (platformer template)

-   **Interior toolkit (objects and materials and other good stuff)**

-   Interactive open world foliage (meh)

-   **Interactive lights system**

-   **Industrial props pack**

-   Ice cool (material)

-   **HQ residential house**

-   **[Good Sky]{.underline}**

-   **Hollywood movie props**

-   House plant pack

-   **Generic NPC animation pack**

-   **GameTextures.com x 2**

-   Food Pack

-   Free furniture pack

-   Flowers and plants nature pack

-   Environment set

-   Dynamic grass system

-   **Construction site vol 1+2**

-   City subway train modular

-   4k wood floor

-   Advanced glass material

-   Advanced Villiage pack

-   **Animal Variety Pack (deer, fox, crow, pig, wolf)**

-   Arch vis polish pack 2

-   Ancient Treasures

FX

-   **Particle Text**

-   **Particle and wind control system**

-   Particle effects (epic games)

-   infinity blade effects

-   **Post Process Shader pack vol1**

-   **Survivor Vision: x ray outlining FX**

-   M5 VFX fire and flame

-   **gFur**

-   FX variety Pack

-   Footsteps sound pack

-   Fireworks particle fx

-   Explosion builder

-   Chameleon post process FX

GAME STUFF

-   **[Player Build system]{.underline}**

-   Path follow

-   Platformer starter pack

-   ***User interface kit***

-   Unreal JS

-   UI navigation

-   **Target System Component: camera targeting**

-   **Save Extension : in game autosave**

-   Procedural midi

-   Mobile utils

-   **Mission component : objectives and dialog system**

-   Menu builder carousel (not the greatest)

-   **Loading Screen System**

-   LE extended standard library (set mouse position, special for loops,
    > get window info)

-   Input buffer basics

-   **First Person Story Adventure template**

-   Inventory system

-   Dynamic locomotion

-   Dynamic combat

-   Dialog plugin

-   Custom movement?

-   Crazy insane dining sets

-   **Coala map plugin!**

-   Blueprint Dialog

-   Advanced Locomotion system (climbing, strafe)

-   

EDITOR HACKS

-   Property Transfer tool

-   **Mesh actor placement**

-   Magic node (write code in blueprint)

-   Autosize comments

-   
